1 
ABILITIES
Cards and faction sheets each have abilities that players can resolve
to trigger various game effects.
1.1 If information in this Rules Reference contradicts the Learn to 
Play booklet, the Rules Reference takes precedence.
1.2 If a card ability contradicts information in the Rules Reference,
the card takes precedence. If both the card and the rules can be
followed at the same time, they should be.
1.3 Each ability describes when and how a player can resolve it.
a  	 If an ability with a specified duration is resolved, the effect
of the ability remains through that duration, even if the
component that caused the ability is removed.
1.4 If a card has multiple abilities, each ability is presented as its
own paragraph.
1.5 If an ability contains the word “Action,” a player must use a
component action during the action phase to resolve that ability.
1.6 If an ability uses the word “cannot,” that effect is absolute.
a  	 If two abilities use the word “cannot,” a persistent ability
takes precedence over a one-time ability and an enabling
ability takes precedence over a cancel ability.
1.7 When a player resolves an ability, they must resolve the ability
in its entirety. Any parts of the ability preceded by the word
“may” are optional, and the player resolving the ability may
choose not to resolve those parts.
1.8 Abilities on components that remain in play are mandatory
unless those abilities use the word “may.”
1.9 If an ability has multiple effects separated by the word “and,” a
player must resolve as many of the ability’s effects as possible.
However, if the player cannot resolve all of its effects, that
player is allowed to resolve as many as they can.
1.10 COSTS
1.11 Some abilities have a cost that is followed by an effect. The
cost of an ability is separated from the effect by the word “to”
or by a semicolon. A player cannot resolve the effect of such an
ability if they cannot resolve that ability’s cost.
1.12 Some examples of an ability’s cost include spending resources,
spending trade goods, spending command tokens, exhausting
cards, purging cards, and activating specific systems.
1.13
TIMING
1.14 If the timing of an ability uses the word “before” or “after,” the
ability’s effect occurs immediately before or after the described
timing event, respectively.
a  	 For example, if an ability is resolved “after a ship is
destroyed,” the ability must be resolved as soon as the ship
is destroyed and not later during that turn or round.
1.15 If the timing of an ability uses the word “when,” the ability’s
effect occurs at the moment of the described timing event.
a  	 Such an ability typically modifies or replaces the timing
event in some way.
1.16 Effects that occur “when” an event happens take priority over
effects that occur “after” an event happens.
1.17 If an ability uses the word “then,” a player must resolve the
effect that occurs before the word “then” or they cannot resolve
the effect that occurs after the word “then.”
1.18 Each ability can be resolved once for each occurrence of that
ability’s timing event. For example, if an ability is resolved
“At the start of combat,” it can be resolved at the start of each
combat.
1.19 If there are multiple abilities that players wish to resolve at the
same time during the action phase, each player takes a turn
resolving an ability in initiative order, beginning with the active
player. This process continues until each player has resolved
each ability that they wish to resolve during that window.
1.20 If there are multiple abilities that players wish to resolve at
the same time during the strategy or agenda phases, players
take turns resolving abilities starting with the speaker and
proceeding clockwise. This process continues until each player
has resolved each ability that they wish to resolve during that
window.
1.21
COMPONENT-SPECIFIC RULES
1.22 The opening paragraph of each ability found on an action card
describes when a player can resolve that card’s ability.
1.23 The opening paragraph of most abilities found on promissory
notes describes when a player can resolve that card’s ability.
a  	 Some promissory notes have abilities that trigger as soon as
a player receives the card.
1.24 Abilities on agenda cards correspond to an outcome. Players
resolve these abilities during the agenda phase after players
vote for a particular outcome.
1.25 Each faction has faction abilities presented on its faction sheet.
Each faction’s flagship has one or more unique abilities. Some
abilities provide players with perpetual effects.
1.26 Some units have unit abilities. These abilities are named and
presented above a unit’s attributes on a player’s faction sheet
or on a unit upgrade card. Each unit ability has unique rules for
when a player can resolve that ability. The following abilities
are unit abilities:
•
Anti-Fighter Barrage
•
Bombardment
•
Deploy
•
Planetary Shield
•
Production
•
Space Cannon
•
Sustain Damage
1.27 If a unit’s ability uses the phrase “this system” or “this planet,”
the ability is referring to the system or planet that contains that
unit.
2
ACTION CARDS
Action cards provide players with various abilities that they can
resolve as described on the cards.
2.1 Each player draws one action card during each status phase.
2.2 Players can draw action cards by resolving the primary and
secondary abilities of the “Politics” strategy card.
2.3 When a player draws an action card, they take the top card
from the action card deck and add it to their hand of action
cards.
2.4 Each player’s hand can have a maximum of seven action
cards. If a player ever has more than seven action cards, that
player must choose seven cards to keep and discard the rest.
a  	 A game effect can increase or decrease the number of cards
a player’s hand can have.
2.5 A player’s action cards remain hidden from other players until
those cards are played.
2.6 The first paragraph of each action card is presented in bold
text and describes the timing of when that card’s ability can be
resolved.
a  	 If an action card contains the word “Action,” a player must
use a component action during the action phase to resolve
the ability. A player cannot resolve a component action if
they cannot completely resolve its ability.
b  	 Multiple action cards with the same name cannot be played
during a single timing window to affect the same units or
game effect. Canceled cards are not treated as being played.
2.7 To play an action card, a player reads and resolves the card’s
ability text, making any decisions as prompted by the card.
Then, that player discards the card, placing it in the action
discard pile.
2.8 If an action card is canceled, that card has no effect and is
discarded.
3
ACTION PHASE
During the action phase, each player takes a turn in initiative order.
During a player’s turn, they perform a single action. After each
player has taken a turn, player turns begin again in initiative order.
This process continues until all players have passed.
3.1 During a player’s turn, they may perform one of the following
three types of actions: a strategic action, a tactical action, or a
component action.
3.2 If a player cannot perform an action, they must pass.
3.3 After a player has passed, they have no further turns and cannot
perform additional actions during that action phase.
a  	 During a turn that a player passes, they can resolve
transactions and “at the start of your turn” abilities.
b  	 A player that has passed can still resolve the secondary
ability of other players’ strategy cards.
c  	 It is possible for a player to perform multiple, consecutive
actions during an action phase if all other players have
passed during that action phase.
3.4 A player cannot pass until they have performed the strategic
action of their strategy card.
a  	 During a three-player or four-player game, a player cannot
pass until they have exhausted both of their strategy cards.
3.5 After all players have passed, play proceeds to the status phase.
4
ACTIVE PLAYER
The active player is the player taking a turn during the action phase.
4.1 During the action phase, the player who is first in initiative
order is the first active player.
4.2 After the active player takes a turn, the next player in initiative
order becomes the active player.
4.3 After the last player in initiative order takes a turn, the player
who is first in initiative order becomes the active player again,
and turns begin again in initiative order, ignoring any players
who have already passed.
5
ACTIVE SYSTEM
The active system is the system that is activated during a tactical
action.
5.1 When a player performs a tactical action, they activate a system
by placing a command token from their tactic pool in that
system. That system is the active system.
5.2 A player cannot activate a system that already contains one of
their command tokens.
5.3 A player can activate a system that contains command tokens
that match other players’ factions.
5.4 A system remains the active system for the duration of the
tactical action during which it was activated.
6
ADJACENCY
Two system tiles are adjacent to each other if any of the tiles’ sides
are touching each other.
6.1 A system that has a wormhole is treated as being adjacent to a
system that has a matching wormhole.
6.2 A unit or planet is adjacent to all system tiles that are adjacent
to the system tile that contains that unit or planet.
a  	 A system is not adjacent to itself.
6.3 A planet is treated as being adjacent to the system that contains
that planet.
6.4 Systems that are connected by lines drawn across one or more
hyperlane tiles are adjacent for all purposes.
7
AGENDA CARD
Agenda cards represent galactic laws and policies. During each
agenda phase, players cast votes for specific outcomes on two
agenda cards.
7.1 There are two types of agenda cards: laws and directives.
7.2 Laws can permanently change the rules of the game.
7.3 When resolving a law, if a “For” outcome received the most
votes, or if the law requires an election, the law’s ability
becomes a permanent part of the game. Players resolve the
outcome and place the agenda card either in the common play
area or in a player’s play area, as dictated by the card.
7.4 If a law is in a player’s play area as opposed to the common
play area, that player owns that law.
7.5 If a law is discarded from play, that law’s ability is no longer
in effect. Place that card on the top of the agenda card discard
pile.
7.6 If an “Against” outcome of a law received the most votes,
players resolve the outcome and discard the agenda.
7.7 Directives provide one-time game effects.
7.8 When resolving a directive, players resolve the outcome that
received the most votes and discard the agenda card.
8
AGENDA PHASE
During the agenda phase, players can cast votes on agendas that can
change the rules of the game.
8.1 Players skip the agenda phase during the early portion of each
game. After the custodians token is removed from Mecatol
Rex, the agenda phase is added to each game round. To resolve
the agenda phase, players perform the following steps:
8.2 STEP 1—FIRST AGENDA: Players resolve the first agenda by
following these steps in order:
i.
REVEAL AGENDA: The speaker draws one agenda card
from the top of the agenda deck and reads it aloud to
all players, including all of its possible outcomes.
ii.
VOTE: Each player, starting with the player to the left of
the speaker and continuing clockwise, can cast votes
for an outcome of the current agenda.
iii.
RESOLVE OUTCOME: Players tally each vote that was
cast and resolve the outcome that received the most votes.
8.3 STEP 2—SECOND AGENDA: Players repeat the “First
Agenda” step of this phase for a second agenda.
8.4 STEP 3—READY PLANETS: Each player readies each of their
exhausted planets. Then, a new game round begins starting
with the strategy phase.
8.5
VOTING
When voting during the agenda phase, a player can cast votes for a
specific outcome of an agenda.
8.6 To cast votes, a player exhausts any number of their planets and
chooses an outcome. The number of votes cast for that outcome
is equal to the combined influence values of the planets that the
player exhausts.
a  	 When a player exhausts a planet to cast votes, that player
must cast the full amount of votes provided by that planet.
8.7 A player cannot cast votes for multiple outcomes of the same
agenda. Each vote a player casts must be for the same outcome.
8.8 Some agendas have “For” and “Against” outcomes. When a
player casts votes on such an agenda, that player must cast their
votes either “For” or “Against.”
8.9 Some agendas instruct players to elect either a player or a
planet. When a player casts votes for such an agenda, that
player must cast their vote for an eligible player or planet as
described on the agenda.
8.10 When electing a player, a player can cast votes for themselves.
a  	 When resolving these agendas, the “elected player” is the
player for whom the most votes are cast.
8.11 When electing a planet, a player must cast votes for a planet
that is controlled by a player.
a  	 When resolving these agendas, the “elected planet” is the
planet that had the most votes cast for it.
8.12 When casting votes, a player must declare aloud the outcome
for which their votes are being cast.
8.13 Trade goods cannot be spent to cast votes.
8.14 A player may choose to abstain by not casting any votes.
8.15 Some game effects allow a player to cast additional votes for
an outcome. These votes cannot be cast for a different outcome
than other votes cast by that player.
8.16 If a player cannot vote on an agenda because of a game effect,
that player cannot cast votes for that agenda by exhausting
planets or through any other game effect.
8.17
OUTCOMES
8.18 To resolve an outcome, the speaker follows the instructions on
the agenda card.
8.19 If there is a tie for the outcome that received the most votes, or
if no outcome receives any votes, the speaker decides which of
the tied outcomes to resolve.
a  	 The speaker’s decision is not a vote.
8.20 If an “Elect” or “For” outcome of a law was resolved, that card
remains in play and permanently affects the game.
8.21 If a directive or an “Against” outcome of a law was resolved,
that card is placed in the agenda discard pile.
8.22 Some game effects instruct a player to predict an outcome. To
predict an outcome, a player declares aloud the outcome they
think will receive the most votes. That player must make this
prediction after the agenda is revealed but before any votes
have been cast.
a  	 A predicted outcome must be a possible outcome of the
revealed agenda.
b  	 After resolving the outcome of the agenda, any abilities that
were dependent upon predicting the outcome are resolved.
9
ANOMALIES
An anomaly is a system tile that has unique rules.
9.1 An anomaly is identified by a red border located on the tile’s
corners.
9.2 There are four types of anomalies: asteroid fields, nebulae,
supernovas, and gravity rifts.
a  	 Some anomalies contain planets; those systems are still
anomalies.
9.3 Each type of anomaly is identified by its art, as follows:
9.4 Abilities can cause a system tile to become an anomaly; that
system tile is an anomaly in addition to its other properties.
9.5 Abilities can cause a system to be two different anomalies; that
system has the properties of both anomalies.
10 ANTI-FIGHTER BARRAGE (UNIT ABILITY)
A unit with the “Anti-Fighter Barrage” ability may be able to
destroy an opponent’s fighters at the onset of a space battle. During
the “Anti-Fighter Barrage” step of the first round of space combat,
players perform the following steps:
10.1 STEP 1—Each player rolls dice for each of their units in the
combat that has the “Anti-Fighter Barrage” ability; this is
called an anti-fighter barrage roll. A hit is produced for each die
roll that is equal to or greater than the unit’s anti-fighter barrage
value.
a  	 A unit’s “Anti-Fighter Barrage” ability is presented along
with a unit’s attributes on faction sheets and unit upgrade
technology cards.
b  	 The “Anti-Fighter Barrage” ability is displayed as “Anti-
Fighter Barrage X (xY).” The X is the minimum value needed
for a die to produce a hit, and Y is the number of dice rolled.
c  	 Game effects that reroll, modify, or otherwise affect combat
rolls do not affect anti-fighter barrage rolls.
d  	 This ability can still be used if no fighters are present; hits
produced may be used to trigger specific abilities.
10.2 STEP 2:—Each player must choose and destroy one of their
fighters in the active system for each hit their opponent’s anti-
fighter barrage roll produced.
a  	 If a player has to assign more hits than they have fighters in
the active system, the excess hits have no effect.
11
ASTEROID FIELD
An asteroid field is an anomaly that affects movement.
11.1 A ship cannot move through or into an asteroid field.
12
ATTACH
Some game effects instruct a player to attach a card to a planet card.
The attached card modifies that planet card in some way.
12.1 To attach a card to a planet card, a player places the card with
the attach effect partially underneath the planet card.
12.2 If a player gains or loses control of planet that contains a card
with an attach effect, the attached card stays with that planet.
a  	 The attached card maintains its exhausted or readied state.
b  	 If a planet card is purged, also purge all cards that are
attached to that planet card and remove the corresponding
attachment tokens from the game board.
12.3 When a card is attached to a planet card, place the
corresponding attachment token on that planet on the game
board.
13
ATTACKER
During combat, the active player is the attacker.
14
BLOCKADED
A player’s unit with “Production” is blockaded if it is in a system
that does not contain any of their ships and contains other players’
ships.
14.1 A player cannot use a blockaded unit to produce ships; that
player can still use a blockaded unit to produce ground forces.
14.2 When a player blockades another player’s space dock, if the
blockaded player has captured any of the blockading player’s
units, those units are returned to the blockading player’s
reinforcements.
a  	 While a player is blockading another player, the blockaded
player cannot capture any of the blockading player’s units.
15
BOMBARDMENT (UNIT ABILITY)
A unit with the “Bombardment” ability may be able to destroy
another player’s ground forces during an invasion. During the
“Bombardment” step, players perform the following steps:
15.1 STEP 1— The active player chooses which planet each of their
units that has a “Bombardment” ability will bombard. Then,
that player rolls dice for each of those units; this is called a
bombardment roll. A hit is produced for each die roll that is
equal to or greater than the unit’s “Bombardment” value.
a  	 A unit’s “Bombardment” ability is presented along with
a unit’s attributes on faction sheets and unit upgrade
technology cards.
b  	 The “Bombardment” ability is displayed as “Bombardment
X (xY).” The X is the minimum value needed for a die to
produce a hit, and Y is the number of dice rolled. Not all
“Bombardment” abilities have a (Y) value; a bombardment
roll for such a unit consists of one die.
c  	 Game effects that reroll, modify, or otherwise affect combat
rolls do not affect bombardment rolls.
d  	 Multiple planets in a system may be bombarded, but a
player must declare which planet a unit is bombarding
before making a bombardment roll.
e  	 The L1Z1X’s “Harrow” ability does not affect the L1Z1X
player’s own ground forces.
f  	 Planets that contain a unit with the “Planetary Shield”
ability cannot be bombarded.
15.2 STEP 2— The player who controls the planet that is being
bombarded chooses and destroys one of their ground forces on
that planet for each hit result the bombardment roll produced.
a  	 If a player has to assign more hits than that player has
ground forces, the excess hits have no effect.
16
CAPACITY (ATTRIBUTE)
Capacity is an attribute of some units that is presented on faction
sheets and unit upgrade technology cards.
16.1 A unit’s capacity value indicates the maximum combined
number of fighters and ground forces that it can transport.
16.2 The combined capacity values of a player’s ships in a system
determine the number of fighters and ground forces that player
can have in that system’s space area.
16.3 If a player has more fighters and ground forces in the space
area of a system than the total capacity of that player’s ships in
that system, that player must remove the excess units.
a  	 A player can choose which of their excess units to remove.
b  	 Ground forces on planets do not count against capacity.
c  	 A player’s fighters and ground forces do not count against
capacity during combat. At the end of combat, any
excess units are removed and returned to that player’s
reinforcements.
16.4 Fighters and ground forces are not assigned to specific ships,
except while they are being transported.
17
CAPTURE
Some abilities instruct a player to capture a unit, preventing the
unit’s original owner from using it.
17.1 If a player captures a non-fighter ship or mech, they place it on
their faction sheet. When such a unit is returned, it is placed
into the reinforcements of the original owner.
17.2 A captured non-fighter ship or mech is returned under the
following circumstances:
a  	 If the player who captured the unit agrees to return it as part
of a transaction.
b  	 If an ability instructs the capturing player to return the unit
as part of an ability’s cost.
c  	 If the player whose unit was captured blockades a space
dock of the player who captured the unit.
17.3 If a player captures a fighter or infantry, it is placed in its
reinforcements instead of on the capturing player’s faction
sheet; the capturing player places a fighter or infantry token
from the supply on their faction sheet instead.
17.4 Captured fighters and infantry do not belong to any player and
are returned only when an ability instructs the capturing player
to do so.
a  	 Captured fighters and infantry cannot be returned as part of
a transaction.
b  	 Captured fighters and infantry are not returned as the result
of a blockade.
c  	 When a captured fighter or infantry is returned, it is placed
in the supply.
17.5 While a unit is captured, it cannot be produced or placed by its
original owner until it is returned.
17.6 If one or more of a player’s space docks is being blockaded,
that player cannot capture units from the blockading players.
18
COMBAT (ATTRIBUTE)
Combat is an attribute of some units that is presented on faction
sheets and unit upgrade technology cards.
18.1 During combat, if a unit’s combat roll produces a result equal
to or greater than its combat value, it produces a hit.
18.2 If a unit’s combat value contains two or more burst icons,
instead of rolling a single die, the player rolls one die for each
burst icon when making that unit’s combat rolls.
19
COMMAND SHEET
Each player has a command sheet
that contains a strategy pool, a
tactic pool, a fleet pool, a trade
good area, and a quick reference.
19.1 The pools on the command
sheet are where players
place their command tokens.
Command tokens in a
player’s pools are used by that
player to perform strategic and tactical actions and to increase
the number of ships that player can have in each system.
19.2 The trade good area on the command sheet is where a player
places their trade good tokens; trade tokens in a player’s trade
good area can be spent by that player as resources, influence, or
to resolve certain game effects that require trade goods.
19.3 Players who are familiar with the game can hide the quick
reference by placing that portion of the command sheet under
their faction sheets.
20 COMMAND TOKENS
Command tokens are a currency that players use to perform actions
and expand their fleets.
20.1 Each player begins the game with eight tokens on their
command sheet: three in their tactic pool, three in their fleet
pool, and two in their strategy pool.
a  	 Command tokens in the strategy and tactic pool are placed
with the faction symbol faceup.
b  	 Command tokens in the fleet pool are placed with the ship
silhouette faceup.
20.2 When a player gains a command token, they choose which of
their three pools to place it in.
20.3 A player is limited by the amount of command tokens in their
reinforcements.
a  	 If a player would gain a command token but has none
available in their reinforcements, that player cannot gain
that command token.
b  	 If a game effect would place a player’s command token
from their reinforcements and none are available, that
player must take a token from a pool on their command
sheet, unless the token would be placed into a system that
already contains one of their command tokens.
20.4 During the action phase, a player can perform a tactical action
by spending a command token from their tactic pool; they place
the command token in a system.
20.5 After a player performs a strategic action during the action
phase, each other player can resolve the secondary ability of
that strategy card by spending a command token from their
strategy pool.
a  	 A player does not spend a command token to resolve the
secondary ability of the “Leadership” strategy card.
20.6 If a game effect would place a player’s command token in a
system where they already have one, they place the token in
their reinforcements instead. Any effects that resolve by placing
that token are resolved as normal.
21
COMMODITIES
Commodities represent goods that are plentiful for
their own faction and are desired by other factions.
A commodity has no inherent game effects, but
converts into a trade good if given to or received
from another player.
21.1 Commodities and trade goods are represented by opposite sides
of the same token.
21.2 The commodity value on a player’s faction sheet indicates the
maximum number of commodities that player can have.
21.3 When an effect instructs a player to replenish commodities,
that player takes the number of commodity tokens necessary
so that the amount of commodities that player has equals the
commodity value on their faction sheet. Then, those tokens are
placed faceup in the commodity area of that player’s faction
sheet.
21.4 When a player replenishes commodities, that player takes the
commodity tokens from the supply.
21.5 Players can trade commodities following the rules for
transactions. When a player receives a commodity from
another player, the player who received that token converts it
into a trade good by placing it in the trade good area of their
command sheet with the trade good side faceup.
a  	 That token is no longer a commodity token; it is a trade
good token.
b  	 A player can trade commodity tokens before resolving a
game effect that allows them to replenish commodities.
c  	 If a game effect instructs a player to convert a number of
their own commodities to trade goods, those trade goods
are not treated as being gained for the purpose of triggering
other abilities.
21.6 Any game effect that instructs a player to give a commodity to
another player causes that commodity to be converted into a
trade good.
21.7 A player cannot spend commodities unless otherwise specified;
a player can only trade them during a transaction.
21.8 Commodity tokens come in values of one and three. A player
can swap between these tokens as necessary.
22
COMPONENT ACTION
A component action is a type of action that a player can perform
during their turn of an action phase.
22.1 Component actions can be found on various game components,
including action cards, technology cards, leaders, exploration
cards, relics, promissory notes, and faction sheets. Each
component action is indicated by an “Action” header.
22.2 To perform a component action, a player reads the action’s text
and follows the instructions as described.
22.3 A component action cannot be performed if its ability cannot be
completely resolved.
22.4 If a component action is canceled, it does not use that player’s
action.
23
COMPONENT LIMITATIONS
If a component type is depleted during the game, players obey the
following rules:
23.1
DICE: Dice are limitless. If a player needs to roll more dice than
the game provides, that player should roll as many as possible,
record the results, and then reroll dice as necessary.
23.2 TOKENS: Tokens are limited to those included in the game,
except for the following:
•
Control Tokens
•
Fighter Tokens
•
Trade Good Tokens
•
Infantry Tokens
23.3 If any of the above tokens are depleted, players can use a
suitable substitute, such as a coin or bead.
23.4 UNITS: Units are limited to those included in the game, except
for fighters and ground forces.
a  	 When a player would place a unit, if there are none of that
type left in their reinforcements, that player can remove
a unit from any system that does not contain one of their
command tokens and place that unit in their reinforcements.
A player can remove any number of their units in this
way; however, any units that are removed must be placed
immediately. Abilities cannot force a player to remove and
place a unit in this manner.
b  	 When producing a fighter or infantry unit, a player can
use a fighter or infantry token, as appropriate, from the
supply instead of a plastic piece. These tokens must be
accompanied by at least one plastic piece of the same type;
players can swap infantry and fighter tokens for plastic
pieces at any time.
23.5 CARDS: When a deck is depleted, players shuffle the deck’s
discard pile and place it facedown to create a new deck.
24
CONSTRUCTION (STRATEGY CARD)
The “Construction” strategy card allows players to construct
structures on planets they control. This card’s initiative value is “4.”
24.1 During the action phase, if the active player has the
“Construction” strategy card, they can perform a strategic
action to resolve that card’s primary ability.
24.2 To resolve the primary ability on the “Construction” strategy
card, the active player may place either one PDS or one space
dock on a planet they control. Then, that player may place an
additional PDS on a planet they control.
a  	 The structures can be placed on the same planet or different
planets.
b  	 The structures can be placed in any systems, regardless of
whether the player has a command token in the system or
not.
24.3 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Construction” strategy card, each other player, beginning
with the player to the left of the active player and proceeding
clockwise, may spend one command token from their strategy
pool and place that command token in any system. If that
player already has a command token in that system, the spent
token is returned to their reinforcements instead. Then, that
player places either one PDS or one space dock on a planet
they control in that system.
24.4 When a player places either a PDS or space dock using the
“Construction” strategy card, they take that PDS or space dock
from their reinforcements.
a  	 If a player does not have the unit in their reinforcements,
that player can remove a unit from any system that does not
contain one of their command tokens and place that unit in
their reinforcements. Then, that player must place the unit
on the game board as instructed by the effect that is placing
the unit.
25
CONTROL
Each player begins the game with control of each planet in their
home system. During the game, players can gain control of
additional planets.
25.1 When a player gains control of a planet, they take the planet
card that corresponds to that planet and place it in their play
area; that card is exhausted.
a  	 If a player is the first player to control a planet, they take the
planet card from the planet card deck.
b  	 If another player controls the planet, they take that planet’s
card from the other player’s play area.
c  	 When a player gains control of a planet that is not already
controlled by another player, they explore that planet.
25.2 A player cannot gain control of a planet that they already
control.
25.3 While a player controls a planet, that planet’s card remains in
their play area until they lose control of that planet.
25.4 A player can control a planet that they do not have any units
on; that player places a control token on that planet to mark that
they control it.
25.5 A player loses control of a planet if they no longer have units
on it and another player has units on it.
a  	 The player that placed units on the planet gains control of
that planet.
b  	 During the invasion step of a tactical action, control is
determined during the “Establish Control” step instead.
25.6 A player can lose control of a planet through some game
effects.
25.7 If a player loses control of a planet that contains their control
token, they remove their control token from the planet.
26 COST (ATTRIBUTE)
Cost is an attribute of some units that is presented on faction sheets
and unit upgrade technology cards. A unit’s cost determines the
number of resources a player must spend to produce that unit.
26.1 To produce a unit, a player must spend a number of resources
equal to or greater than the cost of the unit they are producing.
26.2 If the cost is accompanied by two icons—typically for fighters
and ground forces—a player produces two of that unit for that
cost.
26.3 If a unit does not have a cost, it cannot be produced.
a  	 Structures do not have costs and are usually placed by
resolving the “Construction” strategy card.
27
CUSTODIANS TOKEN
The custodians token begins each game on
Mecatol Rex. The token represents the caretakers
that safeguard the seat of the empire until such
time as the galactic council can be reconvened.
27.1 Units can move into the system that contains
Mecatol Rex following normal rules; however, players cannot
commit ground forces to land on Mecatol Rex until the
custodians token is removed from the planet.
27.2 Before the “Commit Ground Forces” step of an invasion, the
active player can remove the custodians token from Mecatol
Rex by spending six influence. Then, that player must commit
at least one ground force to land on the planet.
a  	 If a player cannot commit ground forces to land on Mecatol
Rex, they cannot remove the custodians token.
27.3 When a player removes the custodians token from Mecatol
Rex, they take the token from the game board and place it in
their play area. Then, they gain one victory point.
27.4 After a player removes the custodians token from Mecatol
Rex, the agenda phase is added to all subsequent game rounds,
including the game round during which the custodians token
was removed from Mecatol Rex.
28
DEALS
A deal is an agreement between two players that may or may not
include a transaction that involves physical components.
28.1 Players can make deals with each other at any time, even
if they are not neighbors. However, deals that include a
transaction must follow the rules for transactions, including that
the players be neighbors.
28.2 Deals are binding or non-binding according to the conditions of
the deal.
28.3 If the terms of a deal can be resolved immediately, it is a
binding deal. When a deal is binding, a player must adhere to
the terms of the agreement and whatever transactions, if any,
were agreed upon.
a  	 The results of playing an action card, including the act of
successfully resolving a card, are not instantaneous and
cannot be guaranteed. They cannot be part of a binding
deal.
28.4 If the terms of a deal cannot be resolved immediately, it is a
non-binding deal. When a deal is non-binding, a player does
not have to adhere to any part of the agreement.
29
DEFENDER
During either a space or ground combat, the player who is not the
active player is the defender.
30 DEPLOY
Some units have deploy abilities. Deploy abilities are indicated by
the “Deploy” header and provide the means to place specific units
on the game board without producing them as normal.
30.1 A player can use a unit’s deploy ability when the ability’s
conditions are met to place that unit on the game board.
a  	 A player does not have to spend resources to deploy a unit
unless otherwise specified.
30.2 A player can only resolve a deploy ability to place a unit that is
in their reinforcements.
a  	 If there are no units that have a deploy ability in a player’s
reinforcements, the deploy ability cannot be used.
30.3 A unit’s deploy ability can be resolved only once per timing
window.
31
DESTROYED
Various game effects can cause a unit to be destroyed. When a
player’s unit is destroyed, it is removed from the game board and
returned to their reinforcements.
31.1 When a player assigns hits that were produced against their
units, that player chooses a number of their units to be
destroyed equal to the number of hits produced against those
units.
31.2 If a player’s unit is removed from the board by a game effect,
it is not treated as being destroyed; effects that trigger when a
unit is destroyed are not triggered.
32
DIPLOMACY (STRATEGY CARD)
The “Diplomacy” strategy card can be used to preemptively prevent
other players from activating a specific system. It can also be used
to ready planets. This card’s initiative value is “2.”
32.1 During the action phase, if the active player has the
“Diplomacy” strategy card, they can perform a strategic action
to resolve that card’s primary ability.
32.2 To resolve the primary ability on the “Diplomacy” strategy
card, the active player chooses a system that contains a planet
they control other than the Mecatol Rex system; each other
player places one command token from their reinforcements
in that system. Then, the active player readies any two of their
exhausted planets.
a  	 If a player has no command tokens in their reinforcements,
that player places one command token of their choice from
their command sheet.
b  	 If a player already has a command token in the chosen
system, they do not place a command token there.
32.3 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Diplomacy” strategy card, each other player, beginning
with the player to the left of the active player and proceeding
clockwise, may spend one command token from their strategy
pool to ready up to two exhausted planets they control.
33
ELIMINATION
A player who is eliminated is no longer part of the game.
33.1 A player is eliminated when they meet all of the following
three conditions:
a  	 The player has no ground forces on the game board.
b  	 The player has no unit that has “Production.”
c  	 The player does not control any planets.
33.2 When a player becomes eliminated, all of the units, command
tokens, control tokens, promissory notes, technologies,
command sheets, and the faction sheet that matches that
player’s faction or color are returned to the game box, including
those in their reinforcements.
33.3 When a player becomes eliminated, all agenda cards they own
are discarded.
33.4 When a player becomes eliminated, each promissory note they
have that matches another player’s faction or color is returned
to that player.
a  	 Promissory notes that match the eliminated player are
returned to the game box, even if another player has them.
33.5 When a player becomes eliminated, each action card in their
hand is discarded.
33.6 When a player becomes eliminated, their strategy cards are
returned to the common play area whether those cards have
been exhausted or not.
33.7 When a player becomes eliminated, their secret objectives
are shuffled back into the secret objective deck whether those
secret objectives have been completed or not.
33.8 If the speaker becomes eliminated, the speaker token passes to
the player to the speaker’s left.
33.9 If a game that started with five or more players becomes a
game with four or fewer players due to elimination, the players
continue to select only one strategy card during the strategy
phase.
33.10 When players are eliminated, faction-specific components
interact with the game as follows:
a  	 If a player becomes eliminated and the Nekro Virus’
assimilator “X” or assimilator “Y” token is placed on one of
their faction technologies, that technology remains in play.
b  	 If the Ghost of Creuss player becomes eliminated, their
wormhole tokens remain on the game board for the
remainder of the game.
c  	 If the Naalu player becomes eliminated while another
player has the Naalu player’s “0” token, that token remains
with its current player until the end of the status phase, and
then it is removed from play.
d  	 If the Titans of Ul player becomes eliminated while their
hero or promissory note is attached to a planet, those
attachments and attachment tokens remain in play for the
remainder of the game.
e  	 If the Mahact Gene-Sorcerers become eliminated while
they have another player’s command tokens on their faction
sheet, those command tokens are returned to their respective
players’ reinforcements.
f  	 If the Mahact Gene-Sorcerers have an eliminated player’s
command token on their faction sheet, that command token
remains in play, as does the eliminated player’s commander,
if it is unlocked.
33.11 If a player becomes eliminated, any units they have captured
are returned to the reinforcements of their original owners.
34
EXHAUSTED
Some cards can be exhausted. A player cannot resolve abilities or
spend the resources or influence of an exhausted card.
34.1 To exhaust a card, a player flips the card facedown.
34.2 During the “Ready Cards” step of the status phase, each player
readies all of their exhausted cards by flipping those cards
faceup.
34.3 A player exhausts their planet cards to spend either the
resources or influence on that card.
34.4 Abilities, including some found on technology cards, may
instruct a player to exhaust a card to resolve those abilities. If a
card is already exhausted, it cannot be exhausted again.
a  	 Passive abilities on an exhausted card are still in effect
while that card is exhausted.
34.5 After a player performs a strategic action, they exhaust the
strategy card that corresponds to that action.
35
EXPLORATION
Planets and some space areas can be
explored, yielding varying results
determined by the cards drawn from the
exploration decks.
35.1 When a player takes control of a
planet that is not already controlled
by another player, they explore that
planet.
35.2 When a player explores a planet, they draw and resolve a card
from the exploration deck that corresponds to that planet’s trait.
a  	 There are three planetary exploration decks, each of which
corresponds to a planet trait: cultural, hazardous, and
industrial.
b  	 Planets that do not have traits, such as Mecatol Rex and
planets in home systems, cannot be explored.
c  	 If a planet has multiple traits, the player exploring the
planet chooses which of the corresponding exploration
decks to draw from.
d  	 If a player gains control of multiple planets or resolves
multiple explore effects at the same time, they choose the
order in which they resolve those explorations, completely
resolving each exploration card before resolving the next.
35.3 Certain abilities may allow a planet to be explored multiple
times.
35.4 Players can explore space areas that contain frontier tokens if
they own the “Dark Energy Tap” technology or if another game
effect allows them to.
a  	 Frontier tokens are placed in systems during setup and by
specific abilities.
35.5 When a player explores a frontier token, they draw and resolve
a card from the frontier exploration deck.
35.6 After a frontier token is explored, it is discarded and returned to
the supply.
35.7 To resolve an exploration card, a player reads the card, makes
any necessary decisions, and resolves its ability. If the card was
not a relic fragment or an attachment, it is discarded into its
respective discard pile.
a  	 If there are no cards in an exploration deck, its discard pile
is shuffled to form a new exploration deck.
35.8 If a player resolves an exploration card that has an “attach”
header, they attach that card to the planet card of the planet
being explored.
35.9 If a player resolves an exploration card that has “relic
fragment” in the title, they place that card faceup in their play
area.
a  	 Players can resolve the ability of relic fragments that are in
their play area. Resolving these abilities allows players to
draw cards from the relic deck.
b  	 Relic fragments can be exchanged as part of transactions.
36 FIGHTER TOKENS
A fighter token functions as a plastic fighter unit
for all game purposes.
36.1 When producing a fighter unit, a player can
use a fighter token from the supply instead of
a plastic piece.
36.2 Players can replace their plastic fighters with tokens at any
time.
36.3 If a player ever has a fighter token in a system that does not
contain one of their plastic fighters, that player must replace it
with a plastic fighter from their reinforcements.
a  	 If the player cannot replace the token, the unit is destroyed.
36.4 Fighter tokens come in values of one and three. A player can
swap between these tokens as necessary.
37
FLEET POOL
The fleet pool is an area of a player’s command sheet.
37.1 The number of command tokens in a player’s fleet pool
indicates the maximum number of non-fighter ships that a
player can have in a system.
a  	 Units that are on planets or that count against a player’s
capacity do not count against that player’s fleet pool.
b  	 Units that are being transported through systems do not
count against a player’s fleet pool in those systems.
37.2 Players place command tokens in their fleet pools with the ship
silhouette faceup.
37.3 If at any time the number of a player’s non-fighter ships in a
system exceeds the number of tokens in that player’s fleet pool,
they choose and remove excess ships in that system, returning
those units to their reinforcements.
37.4 Players do not spend command tokens from this pool unless a
game effect specifically allows it.
38
FRONTIER TOKENS
Frontier tokens can be explored for a variety of
game effects.
38.1 Frontier tokens are placed on the game board
during setup. One frontier token is placed in
each system that does not contain any planets.
a  	 Frontier tokens are not placed on hyperlane tiles.
b  	 A system cannot have more than one frontier token.
c  	 Frontier tokens are placed in anomalies that do not have
planets.
d  	 A frontier token is placed in the Creuss gate system.
39
GAME BOARD
The game board consists of all system tiles in play.
39.1 The game board consists of all system tiles that were placed
during setup, even if the sides of those tiles do not touch any
other system tiles, such as the Ghosts of Creuss’ home system.
39.2 A system tile is on the edge of the game board if any of its sides
are not touching another system tile.
a  	 The Ghosts of Creuss home system and the wormhole
nexus are on the edge of the game board.
40 GAME ROUND
A game round consists of the following four phases:
1.
Strategy Phase
2.
Action Phase
3.
Status Phase
4.
Agenda Phase
40.1 Players skip the agenda phase during the early portion of each
game. After the custodians token is removed from Mecatol
Rex, the agenda phase is added to each game round.
40.2 Player turns occur during the action phase.
40.3 Abilities that last until the end of a player’s turn do not persist
for the duration of a game round or into the other phases of that
game round. Those effects end at the end of that player’s turn,
before the next player’s turn begins.
41
GRAVITY RIFT
A gravity rift is an anomaly that affects movement.
41.1 A ship that will move out of or through a gravity rift at any
time during its movement, applies +1 to its move value.
a  	 This can allow a ship to reach the active system from farther
away than it normally could.
41.2 For each ship that would move out of or through a gravity rift,
one die is rolled immediately before it exits the gravity rift
system; on a result of 1–3, that ship is removed from the board.
a  	 Dice are not rolled for units that are being transported by
ships that have capacity.
b  	 Units that are being transported are removed from the board
if the ship transporting them is removed from the board.
c  	 Units that are removed are returned to the player’s
reinforcements.
41.3 A gravity rift can affect the same ship multiple times during a
single movement.
41.4 A system that contains multiple gravity rifts is treated as a
single gravity rift.
42
GROUND COMBAT
During the “Ground Combat” step of an invasion, if the active
player has ground forces on a planet that contains another player’s
ground forces, those players resolve a ground combat on that planet.
To resolve a ground combat, players perform the following steps:
42.1 STEP 1—ROLL DICE: Each player rolls one die for each ground
force they have on the planet; this is a combat roll. If a unit’s
combat roll produces a result that is equal to or greater than that
unit’s combat value, that roll produces a hit.
a  	 If a unit’s combat value contains two or more burst icons,
the player rolls one die for each burst icon instead.
42.2 STEP 2—ASSIGN HITS: Each player in the combat must
choose one of their own ground forces on the planet to be
destroyed for each hit result their opponent produced.
a  	 When a unit is destroyed, the player who controls that
unit removes it from the board and places it in their
reinforcements.
42.3 After assigning hits, if both players still have ground forces on
the planet, players resolve a new combat round starting with the
“Roll Dice” step.
42.4 Ground combat ends when only one player (or neither player)
has ground forces on the planet.
a  	 During the first round of a combat, “start of combat” and
“start of combat round” effects occur during the same
timing window.
b  	 During the last round of a combat, “end of combat” and
“end of combat round” effects occur during the same timing
window.
c  	 After a combat ends, the player with one or more ground
forces remaining on the planet is the winner of the combat;
the other player is the loser of the combat.
d  	 If neither player has a ground force remaining, there is no
winner; the combat ends in a draw.
43
GROUND FORCES
A ground force is a type of unit. All infantry and mech units in the
game are ground forces. Some races have unique infantry units.
43.1 Ground forces are always on planets, in a space area with ships
that have capacity values, or being transported by those ships.
43.2 Ground forces being transported by a ship are placed in a
system’s space area along with the ship that is transporting them.
43.3 There is no limit to the number of ground forces a player can
have on a planet.
44
HYPERLANES
Hyperlanes are tiles that are used in some game board setups to create
adjacency of system tiles that are not touching each other.
44.1 Systems that are connected by lines drawn across one or more
hyperlane tiles are adjacent for all purposes.
44.2 Hyperlane tiles are not systems. They cannot have units on
them and they cannot be targets for effects or abilities.
45
IMPERIAL (STRATEGY CARD)
The “Imperial” strategy card allows players to score victory points
and draw secret objectives. This card’s initiative value is “8.”
45.1 During the action phase, if the active player has the “Imperial”
strategy card, they can perform a strategic action to resolve that
card’s primary ability.
45.2 To resolve the primary ability on the “Imperial” strategy card,
the active player can score one public objective of their choice
if they meet that objective’s requirements as described on its
card. Then, if the active player controls Mecatol Rex, they gain
one victory point; if they do not control Mecatol Rex, they can
draw one secret objective card.
45.3 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Imperial” strategy card, each other player, beginning with the
player to the left of the active player and proceeding clockwise,
may spend one command token from their strategy pool to
draw one secret objective card.
45.4 If a player has more than three secret objective cards after
drawing a secret objective, they must choose one of their
unscored secret objectives and return it to the secret objective
deck. This number includes the secret objective cards in the
player’s hand and the cards that player has already scored.
Then, they shuffle the secret objective deck.
46 INFANTRY TOKENS
An infantry token functions as a plastic infantry
unit for all game purposes.
46.1 When producing an infantry unit, a player can
use an infantry token from the supply instead
of a plastic piece.
46.2 Players can replace their plastic infantry with tokens at any time.
46.3 If a player ever has an infantry token on a planet that does not
contain one of their plastic infantry or in the space area of a
system that does not contain one of their plastic infantry, that
player must replace it with one of their plastic infantry from
their reinforcements.
a  	 If that player cannot replace the token, the unit is destroyed.
46.4 Infantry tokens come in values of one and three. A player can
swap between these tokens as necessary.
47
INFLUENCE
Influence represents a planet’s political power. Players spend
influence to gain command tokens using the “Leadership” strategy
card, and the influence values of planets are used to cast votes
during the agenda phase.
47.1 A planet’s influence is the rightmost value (surrounded by a
blue border) found on the planet’s system tile and planet card.
47.2 A player can spend a planet’s influence by exhausting that
planet’s card.
47.3 A player can spend a trade good as if it were one influence.
a  	 Players cannot spend trade goods to cast votes during the
agenda phase.
48
INITIATIVE ORDER
Initiative order is the order in which players resolve steps of the
action and status phases.
48.1 Initiative order is determined by the initiative numbers on
strategy cards.
a  	 A player who has the Naalu “0” token has the initiative
number 0.
48.2 Initiative order begins with the player who has the lowest-
numbered strategy card and proceeds to the player who has the
strategy card that is next in numerical order.
a  	 Only strategy cards that were chosen during the strategy
phase are used when determining initiative order; strategy
cards not chosen during the strategy phase are ignored.
48.3 When playing with three or four players, a player’s initiative is
determined only by their lowest-numbered strategy card.
49
INVASION
Invasion is a step of the tactical action during which the active
player can land ground forces on planets to gain control of those
planets.
To resolve an invasion, players perform the following steps:
49.1 STEP 1—BOMBARDMENT: The active player may use the
“Bombardment” ability of any of their units in the active
system.
49.2 STEP 2—COMMIT GROUND FORCES: If the active player
has ground forces in the space area of the active system, that
player may commit any number of those ground forces to land
on any of the planets in that system.
a  	 To commit a ground force to a planet, the active player
places that ground force unit on that planet.
b  	 The planet may contain another player’s ground forces.
c  	 If the active player does not wish to commit ground forces,
that player proceeds to the “Production” step of the tactical
action.
49.3 STEP 3—SPACE CANNON DEFENSE: If the active player
commits any ground forces to a planet that contains units
that have the “Space Cannon” ability, those “Space Cannon”
abilities can be used against the committed ground forces.
a  	 If the active player committed ground forces to more than
one planet that contained units with a “Space Cannon”
ability, the active player chooses the order in which those
“Space Cannon” abilities are resolved.
49.4 STEP 4—GROUND COMBAT: If the active player has ground
forces on a planet in the active system that contains another
player’s ground forces, those players resolve a ground combat
on that planet.
a  	 If players must resolve a combat on more than one planet,
the active player chooses the order in which those combats
are resolved.
49.5 STEP 5—ESTABLISH CONTROL: The active player gains
control of each planet they committed ground forces to if that
planet still contains at least one of their ground forces.
a  	 When a player gains control of a planet, any structures on
the planet that belong to other players are immediately
destroyed.
b  	 When a player gains control of a planet, they gain the planet
card that matches that planet and exhaust that card.
c  	 A player cannot gain control of a planet they already
control.
d  	 If there was a combat, and all units belonging to both
players were destroyed, the player who was the defender
retains control of the planet and places one of their control
tokens on the planet.
50 LEADER SHEET
Each player has a leader sheet that contains
slots for their faction’s three leader cards as
well as their faction’s mech unit card.
50.1 The leader slots of the leader sheet are
where players place their three leader
cards during setup. Each slot displays
the name of the type of leader that is
placed in that slot (agent, commander,
and hero) as well as a symbol in the upper-right that helps
players quickly determine which side of those leaders begins
the game faceup.
a  	 The sides of the leader cards that display one (agent), two
(commander), or three (hero) hash marks, respectively,
begin the game faceup.
50.2 The mech slot of the leader sheet is where players place their
mech unit cards during setup.
50.3 Players who are familiar with the game can hide the quick
reference by placing that portion of the leader sheet under their
faction sheets.
51
LEADERS
Each player has several faction-specific leader cards that represent
characters with unique abilities.
51.1 Each faction has three leaders; one agent, one commander, and
one hero.
a  	 The Nomad’s “The Company” faction ability grants them
two additional agents, for a total of five leaders.
51.2 A player’s leaders are placed on their leader sheet during setup.
a  	 Each leader card is placed on the slot that matches its type.
The leader cards are placed so that the hash mark symbols
in the upper right are faceup and match the slot that the card
is placed on.
b  	 The two additional Nomad agents are placed in the Nomad
player’s play area readied side up.
51.3
AGENTS
51.4 An agent does not need to be unlocked and
begins the game in a readied state. They can
be exhausted by resolving their abilities,
and they ready during the “Ready Cards”
step of the status phase.
51.5
COMMANDERS
51.6 A commander must be unlocked to use its
abilities. A player unlocks their commander
if they fulfill the conditions listed after the
“Unlock” header.
a  	 Each faction’s commander has a unique “Unlock”
condition.
b  	 After a player fulfills the unlock condition of their
commander, they flip it over to its unlocked side.
c  	 A commander’s unlock conditions cannot be met while an
ability or game effect is being resolved. That is, pending
abilities or partially resolved game effects must be
completed before checking if conditions are met.
d  	 A commander cannot flip to its locked side after it is unlocked,
even if its owner no longer meets the unlock conditions.
51.7 A commander cannot be exhausted.
51.8 The “Alliance” promissory note allows a player to share their
commander’s ability with another player.
a  	 A commander’s owner can still use their commander’s
ability, even if another player has their “Alliance”
promissory note.
51.9
HEROES
51.10 A hero needs to be unlocked to use their
abilities. A player unlocks their hero if
they fulfill the conditions listed after the
“Unlock” header.
a  	 The “Unlock” condition for each hero is to have three
scored objectives; these can be any combination of secret
objectives and public objectives.
b  	 Victory points do not count toward unlocking heroes.
c  	 After a player fulfills the unlock condition of their hero,
they flip it to its unlocked side.
d  	 A hero cannot flip to its locked side after it is unlocked.
51.11 A hero cannot be exhausted.
51.12 A hero is purged after its abilities are resolved.
a  	 The Titans of Ul’s hero is not purged; it is attached to the
planet Elysium instead.
52
LEADERSHIP (STRATEGY CARD)
The “Leadership” strategy card allows players to gain command
tokens. This card’s initiative value is “1.”
52.1 During the action phase, if the active player has the
“Leadership” strategy card, they can perform a strategic action
to resolve that card’s primary ability.
52.2 To resolve the primary ability on the “Leadership” strategy
card, the active player gains three command tokens. Then, that
player can spend any amount of their influence to gain one
command token for every three influence they spend.
52.3 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Leadership” strategy card, each other player, beginning
with the player to the left of the active player and proceeding
clockwise, may spend any amount of influence to gain one
command token for every three influence they spend.
52.4 When a player gains command tokens, that player places each
token on their command sheet in the pool of their choice.
53
LEGENDARY PLANETS
Legendary planets grant the player that
controls them unique, planet-specific abilities.
53.1 A legendary planet is indicated by the
legendary planet icon.
53.2 When a player gains control of a
legendary planet, they also place its
legendary planet ability card in their play area.
a  	 If a player gains control of a legendary planet
ability card from the deck, it is readied.
b  	 If a player gains control of an exhausted legendary planet
ability card, it remains exhausted.
53.3 Players can use the abilities on the legendary planet ability
cards in their play area.
53.4 If a legendary planet’s planet card is purged, its corresponding
legendary planet ability card is also purged.
54
MECATOL REX
Mecatol Rex is the planet placed in the center of the game board
during setup.
54.1 During setup, the custodians token is placed on Mecatol Rex. This
token prevents a player from committing ground forces to land on
the planet unless they spend six influence to remove the token.
55
MECHS
Mechs are unique, faction-specific heavy ground forces.
55.1 Mechs are a type of ground force and can be transported and
participate in ground combat.
55.2 Each player begins with their mech unit card in play on their
leader sheet and can produce mechs for the cost presented on
the card.
55.3 Some mechs have “Deploy” abilities which allow a player
to place them on the game board without producing them
normally.
55.4 Mech unit cards are not technologies.
56 MODIFIERS
A modifier is a number that is applied by an ability to increase or
decrease the attribute values of a unit or the results of a die roll.
56.1 A modifier is always preceded by the word “apply” followed by
a numerical value.
56.2 A modifier value preceded by a “+” is added to the attribute
or result being modified; a modifier value preceded by a “-” is
subtracted from the attribute or result being modified.
57
MOVE (ATTRIBUTE)
Move is an attribute of some units that is presented on faction sheets
and unit upgrade technology cards.
57.1 A unit’s move value indicates the distance from its current
system that it can move during the “Movement” step of a
tactical action.
58
MOVEMENT
A player can move their ships by resolving a tactical action during
the action phase. Additionally, some abilities can move a unit
outside of the tactical action.
58.2
TACTICAL ACTION MOVEMENT
58.3 A ship’s move value is presented along with its other attributes
on faction sheets and unit upgrade technology cards. This value
indicates the distance from its current system that a ship can
move.
To resolve movement, players perform the following steps:
58.4 STEP 1—MOVE SHIPS: A player can move any number
of their eligible ships into the active system, obeying the
following rules:
a  	 The ship must end its movement in the active system.
b  	 The ship cannot move through a system that contains ships
that are controlled by another player.
c  	 The ship cannot move if it started its movement in another
system that contains one of its faction’s command tokens.
d  	 The ship can move through systems that contain its own
faction’s command tokens.
e  	 The ship can move out of the active system and back into it
if its move value is high enough.
f  	 The ship must move along a path of adjacent systems, and
the number of systems the ship enters cannot exceed its
move value.
58.5 When a ship with a capacity value moves or is moved, it may
transport ground forces and fighters.
58.6 The active player declares which of their ships are moving
before any ships move. Those ships arrive in the active system
simultaneously.
58.7 STEP 2—SPACE CANNON OFFENSE: After the “Move
Ships” step, players can use the “Space Cannon” abilities of
their units in the active system.
58.8
ABILITY MOVEMENT
58.9 If an ability moves a unit outside of the “Movement” step of a
tactical action, players follow the rules specified by that ability;
neither a unit’s move value nor the rules specified above apply.
59
NEBULA
A nebula is an anomaly that affects movement and combat.
59.1 A ship can only move into a nebula if it is the active system.
a  	 A ship cannot move through a nebula. That is, a ship cannot
move into and out of a nebula during the same movement.
59.2 A ship that begins the “Movement” step of a tactical action in a
nebula treats its move value as “1” for the duration of that step.
a  	 Other abilities and effects can increase this number.
59.3 If a space combat occurs in a nebula, the defender applies +1 to
each combat roll of their ships during that combat.
60 NEIGHBORS
Two players are neighbors if they both have a unit or control a
planet in the same system. They are also neighbors if they both have
a unit or control a planet in systems that are adjacent to each other.
60.1 Players can resolve transactions with their neighbors.
60.2 Players are neighbors if the adjacency of systems is granted by
a wormhole.
60.3 Players are neighbors with the Ghosts of Creuss if the Ghosts
of Creuss’ “Quantum Entanglement” faction ability is causing
adjacency from the perspective of the Ghosts of Creuss player.
61 OBJECTIVE CARDS
Players can score objectives to gain victory points.
61.1 There are two types of objective cards: public objectives and
secret objectives.
a  	 Each public objective has a “I” or “II” on the back of its
card; all other objectives are secret objectives.
61.2 Each objective card indicates a number of victory points that a
player gains by scoring that objective.
61.3 Each objective card indicates the phase during which a player
can score that objective—the status, action, or agenda phases.
61.4 Each objective card describes the requirement a player must
fulfill to score that objective.
61.5 If a player fulfills the requirement described on an objective
card, they can score that objective following the timing
indicated on the card, either during the action phase or the
status phase.
a  	 When a player scores an objective during the status phase,
they must fulfill the requirement on the card during the “Score
Objectives” step of the status phase to score that objective.
b  	 When a player scores an objective during the action phase,
they can do so at any time during that phase.
c  	 When a player scores an objective during the agenda phase,
they can do so at any time during that phase.
61.6 A player can score a maximum of one public objective and one
secret objective during each status phase.
61.7 A player can score any number of objectives during the agenda
phase or during a turn of the action phase; however, they can
only score one objective during or after each combat.
a  	 A player can score an objective during both the space combat
and the ground combat during the same tactical action.
61.8 A player can score each objective only once during the game.
61.9 If an objective requires a player to destroy one or more units,
those units can be destroyed by producing hits against them,
playing action cards, using technology, or any number of other
abilities that use the “destroy” terminology.
a  	 Forcing a player to remove a unit from the board by
reducing the number of command tokens in their fleet pool
is not treated as destroying a unit.
61.10 Players can score some objectives by spending resources,
influence, or tokens, as described by the objective card. To
score such an objective, a player must pay the specified cost at
the time indicated on the card.
61.11 PUBLIC OBJECTIVES
A public objective is an objective that is
revealed to all players.
61.12 When scoring a public objective, the player
places one of their control tokens on that
objective’s card. Then, that player advances
their control token on the victory point track
a number of spaces equal to the number of
victory points gained.
61.13 Each game contains five stage I and five stage II public
objective cards that the speaker places facedown near the
victory point track during setup.
a  	 The speaker reveals two of the stage I objective cards
during setup. All other objective cards remain facedown.
61.14 During each status phase, the speaker reveals a facedown
public objective card.
a  	 The speaker does not reveal stage II objective cards until all
stage I objective cards are revealed.
61.15 If the speaker must reveal a facedown public objective card but
all public objective cards are already revealed, the game ends
immediately.
a  	 The player with the most victory points is the winner. If one
or more players are tied for having the most victory points,
the tied player who is first in initiative order is the winner.
61.16 A player cannot score public objectives if that player does not
control each planet in their home system.
61.17 SECRET OBJECTIVES
A secret objective is an objective that is
controlled by one player and is hidden from all
other players until it is scored.
61.18 When scoring a secret objective, a player
reveals the objective by placing it faceup in
their play area. Then, they place one of their
control tokens on that objective’s card and
advances their control token on the victory
point track a number of spaces equal to the
number of victory points gained.
61.19 A player can only score their own secret objectives; a player
cannot score secret objectives revealed by other players.
61.20 Each player begins the game with one secret objective.
61.21 Each player can have up to three total scored and unscored
secret objectives.
a  	 If a player draws a secret objective and has more than
three, that player must choose one of their unscored secret
objectives and return it to the deck. Then, that player
shuffles the secret objective deck.
61.22 A player can gain secret objectives by resolving either the
primary or secondary ability of the “Imperial” strategy card.
62 OPPONENT
During combat, a player’s opponent is the other player that either
has ships in the system at the start of the space combat or has
ground forces on the planet at the start of a ground combat.
62.1 Players who do not have units on either side of a combat are
not opponents. Those players cannot use abilities or have
abilities used against them that are used against an opponent.
63
PDS
A PDS (planetary defense system) is a structure that allows a player
to defend their territory against invading forces.
63.1 Each PDS has the “Space Cannon” ability.
63.2 The primary way by which players acquire PDS units is
by resolving either the primary or secondary ability of the
“Construction” strategy card.
63.3 A PDS unit is placed on a planet. Each planet can have a
maximum of two PDS units.
63.4 If a player’s PDS is ever on a planet that does not contain any
of their own ground forces and contains a unit that belongs to
another player, that PDS is destroyed.
64
PLANETS
Planets provide players with resources and
influence. Planets are on system tiles and each
has a name, a resource value, and an influence
value. Some planets also have traits.
64.1 A planet’s resources are indicated by the
value on its planet card and system tile that
is surrounded by a yellow triangular border.
64.2 A planet’s influence is indicated by the value on its planet card
and system tile that is surrounded by a blue hexagonal border.
64.3 A planet’s trait has no inherent effects, but some game effects
refer to a planet’s trait. There are three traits: cultural,
hazardous, and industrial.
64.4 Some planets have a technology specialty, which allows those
planets to be exhausted to satisfy a prerequisite when
researching technology.
64.5 Some planets are legendary planets, as indicated
by the legendary planet icon. When a player gains
control of a legendary planet, they also gain
control of its legendary planet ability card.
64.6 PLANET CARD
Each planet has a corresponding planet card that displays its name,
resource value, influence value, and trait, if it has one. If a player
controls a planet, they keep that planet’s card in their play area.
64.7 A planet card has both a readied and exhausted state. When
a planet is readied, it is placed faceup. When a planet is
exhausted, it is placed facedown.
64.8 A player can spend a readied planet’s resources or influence.
64.9 A player cannot spend an exhausted planet’s resources or
influence.
65 PLANETARY SHIELD (UNIT ABILITY)
Units cannot use the “Bombardment” ability against a planet that
contains a unit that has the “Planetary Shield” ability.
65.1 The “Planetary Shield” ability does not prevent a planet from
being affected by the “X-89 Bacterial Weapon” technology.
65.2 The “Planetary Shield” ability prevents an L1Z1X player from
using their “Harrow” faction ability.
65.3 If a war sun is in a system with any number of other players’
units that have the “Planetary Shield” ability, those units are
treated as if they do not have that ability.
a  	 Units treated as if they do not have a “Planetary Shield”
ability cannot use the “Magen Defense Grid” technology.
b  	 A war sun can use its “Bombardment” ability against
planets that contain units that have the “Planetary Shield”
ability.
66 POLITICS (STRATEGY CARD)
The “Politics” strategy card allows players to draw action cards.
Additionally, the active player chooses a new speaker and looks at
cards in the agenda deck. This card’s initiative value is “3.”
66.1 During the action phase, if the active player has the “Politics”
strategy card, they can perform a strategic action to resolve that
card’s primary ability.
66.2 To resolve the primary ability on the “Politics” strategy card,
the active player resolves the following effects in order:
i.
The active player chooses any player that does not
have the speaker token. The active player may choose
themselves as long as they do not have the speaker
token. The chosen player places the speaker token in
their play area; they are now the speaker.
ii.
The active player draws two action cards.
iii.
The active player secretly looks at the top two cards of
the agenda deck. Then, that player places each card on
either the top or the bottom of the deck. If they place
both cards on either the top or bottom, they can place
them in any order.
66.3 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Politics” strategy card, each other player, beginning with the
player to the left of the active player and proceeding clockwise,
may spend one command token from their strategy pool to
draw two action cards.
67 PRODUCING UNITS
The primary way that a player produces new units is by resolving
the “Production” abilities of existing units during a tactical action.
However, other game effects also allow players to produce units.
67.1 Each unit that a player can produce has a cost value presented
on its faction sheet or technology card. To produce a unit, a
player must spend a number of resources equal to or greater
than the cost value of the unit they are producing.
a  	 Spent resources must come from planets or trade goods that
are controlled by the player who is producing the units.
b  	 Any resources spent in excess of a unit’s cost are lost.
c  	 If a player is producing multiple units at a time, that player
can add the cost of each unit they are producing to create a
total cost before they spend any resources.
67.2 If the cost is accompanied by two icons—typically for fighters
and infantry—a player produces two of that unit for that cost.
a  	 Each of the two units counts toward the total number of
units a player can produce.
b  	 A player can choose to produce only one unit; however,
they must still pay the entire cost.
67.3 When a player produces a unit through the use of their units’
“Production” abilities during a tactical action, that player
follows the rules of the “Production” ability to determine where
in the active system the units can be placed.
67.4 When a player produces a unit through an ability outside of the
tactical action, that ability will state how many units that player
can produce and where that player can place those units.
a  	 A player cannot produce a unit on a planet they do not control.
b  	 If an ability allows a player to produce a unit in a system,
they may produce that unit in the space area or on a planet
they control in that system.
67.5 A player is limited by the number of units in their
reinforcements.
a  	 If a player cannot produce a unit because it is not in their
reinforcements, that player can remove a unit from any
system that does not contain one of their command tokens
and place that unit in their reinforcements. Then, that player
can produce that unit. A player can remove any number of
their units in this way; however, any units that are removed
must be produced immediately.
b  	 When producing a fighter or infantry unit, a player can use
a fighter or infantry token, as appropriate, from the supply
instead of a plastic piece.
67.6 A player cannot produce ships in a system that contains other
players’ ships.
a  	 Ground forces can still be produced.
68 PRODUCTION (UNIT ABILITY)
During the “Production” step of a tactical action, the active player
can resolve the “Production” ability of each of their units that are in
the active system to produce units.
68.1 A unit’s “Production” ability, which is presented on a faction
sheet or unit upgrade technology card, is always followed by a
value. This value is the maximum number of units that this unit
can produce.
a  	 If the active player has multiple units in the active system
that have the “Production” ability, that player can produce
a number of units up to the combined total of their units’
production values in that system.
b  	 When producing fighters or infantry, each individual unit
counts toward the producing unit’s production limit.
c  	 A player can choose to produce one fighter or infantry
instead of two, but must still pay the entire cost.
d  	 “Production” value from Arborec space docks cannot be
used to produce infantry, even if the Arborec player controls
other units that have “Production” in the same system.
68.2 When a player produces ships by using “Production,” that
player must place them in the active system.
68.3 When a player produces ground forces, that player must
place those unit on planets that contain a unit that used its
“Production” ability.
68.4 If a player uses the “Production” ability of a unit in a space area
of a system to produce ground forces, those ground forces may
either be placed on a planet the player controls in that system or
in the space area of that system.
69 PROMISSORY NOTES
Each player begins the game with one unique
and five generic promissory note cards that
can be given to other players.
69.1 Each promissory note contains timing
text and ability text. A player can resolve
any of their promissory note cards by
following the text on the card.
a  	 Promissory notes are not mandatory
unless otherwise specified.
69.2 A player cannot play their color’s or faction’s promissory notes.
Since the cards are only valuable to other players, promissory
notes can be traded as powerful negotiation tools.
69.3 Promissory notes that are returned to a player are returned after
their abilities have been completely resolved.
69.4 If a promissory note is returned to a player, that player may
give it to other players again as part of a future transaction.
a  	 An unrevealed promissory note is not subject to effects in its
ability text that return the card if certain conditions are met.
69.5 When resolving a transaction, a player can trade a maximum of
one promissory note from their hand to another player, even if
that card originally belonged to another player.
a  	 Promissory notes in the play area cannot be traded.
69.6 Players should keep their hands of promissory notes hidden.
69.7 If a player is eliminated, all of the promissory notes that match
their color or faction are returned to the game box, including
those that are in play or owned by other players.
a  	 Other players’ promissory notes are returned to those
players.
70 PURGE
Purge is a cost that permanently removes a component from the
game. If an ability requires that its component is purged, that
component can only be used once per game.
70.1 If an ability instructs a player to purge a component, that
component is removed from the game and returned to the box.
70.2 Purged components cannot be used or otherwise returned to the
game by any means.
70.3 When a player is intructed to purge a component, that
component is purged even if its ability was only partially
resolved.
71
READIED
Cards have a readied state, which indicates that a player can exhaust
or resolve the abilities on those cards.
71.1 A card that is readied is placed faceup in a player’s play area; a
card that is exhausted is placed facedown in a player’s area.
71.2 A player can exhaust a readied planet card to spend resources
or influence from that card’s planet.
71.3 A player can exhaust certain readied technology cards to
resolve those cards’ abilities.
a  	 Such a technology will specifically instruct a player to
exhaust the card as part of the ability’s cost.
71.4 If a card is exhausted, a player cannot resolve that card’s
abilities or spend resources or influence on that card until it is
readied.
71.5 During a “Ready Cards” step, each player readies all of their
exhausted cards by flipping them faceup.
71.6 When a player performs a strategic action, they exhaust their
chosen strategy card.
a  	 That card is later readied during the status phase.
72
REINFORCEMENTS
A player’s reinforcements is that player’s personal supply of units
and command tokens that are not on the game board or otherwise in
use.
72.1 The components in a player’s reinforcements are limited.
73
RELICS
Relics are powerful artifacts with unique
abilities.
73.1 Players can use the abilities of hazardous,
cultural, and industrial relic fragments
in their play area to draw cards from the
relic deck.
a  	 Relic fragments can be found when
exploring planets and frontier tokens,
and can be exchanged with other
players as part of transactions.
73.2 When a player is instructed to gain a relic, they draw the top
card of the relic deck and place it faceup in their play area.
a  	 If there are no cards in the relic deck, they do not gain a
relic.
73.3 A player can use the abilities of relics that are in their play area.
73.4 Relics cannot be traded.
74
REROLLS
Some game effects instruct a player to reroll dice.
74.1 When a die is rerolled, its new result is used instead of its
previous result.
74.2 The same ability cannot be used to reroll the same die multiple
times, but multiple abilities can be used to reroll a single die.
74.3 Die rerolls must occur after rolling the dice, before other
abilities are resolved.
75
RESOURCES
Resources represent a planet’s material value and industry. Many
game effects, such as producing units, require players to spend
resources.
75.1 A planet’s resources are the leftmost value that is surrounded
by a yellow border on the planet’s system tile and planet card.
75.2 A player spends a planet’s resources by exhausting its card.
75.3 A player can spend a trade good as if it were one resource.
76
SHIPS
A ship is a unit type consisting of carriers, cruisers, dreadnoughts,
destroyers, fighters, and war suns. Each race also has a unique
flagship.
76.1 Ships are always placed in space.
76.2 A player can have a number of ships in a system equal to or less
than the number of command tokens in that player’s fleet pool.
a  	 Fighters do not count toward the fleet pool limit, and
instead count against a player’s capacity.
76.3 Ships can have any number of the following attributes: cost,
combat, move, and capacity. These attributes are shown on
faction sheets and unit upgrade technology cards.
77
SPACE CANNON (UNIT ABILITY)
A unit that has the “Space Cannon” ability can use it during two
different steps of a player’s tactical action: after the “Move Ships”
substep (Space Cannon Offense) and during an invasion (Space
Cannon Defense).
77.1 A player is not required to be the active player to use their
“Space Cannon” ability of their units.
77.2
SPACE CANNON OFFENSE
During a tactical action, after the “Move Ships” substep of the
“Movement” step, beginning with the active player and proceeding
clockwise, each player may use the “Space Cannon” ability of each
of their units in the active system by performing the following steps:
77.3 STEP 1
­ —ROLL DICE: The player rolls dice for each of their
units in the active system that has the “Space Cannon” ability;
this is a space cannon roll. One hit is produced for each result
that is equal to or greater than the unit’s “Space Cannon” value.
a  	 A unit’s “Space Cannon” ability is presented along with
a unit’s attributes on faction sheets and unit upgrade
technology cards.
b  	 “Space Cannon” is displayed as “Space Cannon X (xY).”
The X is the minimum value needed for a die to produce
a hit, and Y is the number of dice rolled. Not all “Space
Cannon” abilities are accompanied by a (Y) value; a space
cannon roll for such a unit consists of one die.
c  	 If a player has a PDS unit upgrade technology, they can use
the “Space Cannon” ability of their PDS units that are in
systems that are adjacent to the active system. The hits are
still assigned to units in the active system.
d  	 Game effects that reroll, modify, or otherwise affect combat
rolls do not affect space cannon rolls.
77.4 This ability can be used even if no ships were moved during the
“Move Ships” step.
77.5 STEP 2
­­ —ASSIGN HITS: The player whose units have been
targeted by “Space Cannon” must choose and destroy one of
their ships in the active system for each hit result produced
against their units.
a  	 Players other than the active player must target the active
player’s units.
b  	 If the active player is using the “Space Cannon” ability of
their units, they choose a player who has ships in the active
system. That player must choose and destroy one of their
ships in the active system for each hit the space cannon roll
produced.
77.6 SPACE CANNON DEFENSE
During the invasion step of a tactical action, after ground forces
have been committed to land on planets, players other than the
active player can resolve the “Space Cannon” ability of their units
on those planets by performing the following steps:
77.7 STEP 1—ROLL DICE: Each player may use the “Space Cannon”
ability of each of their units on the invaded planet by rolling
a specific number of dice for each of those units; this is called
a space cannon roll. A hit is produced for each die roll that is
equal to or greater than the unit’s “Space Cannon” value.
a  	 If a unit has a “Space Cannon” ability, it is present on its
faction sheet and technology cards.
b  	 “Space Cannon” is displayed as “Space Cannon X (xY).”
The X is the minimum value needed for a die to produce
a hit, and Y is the number of dice rolled. Not all “Space
Cannon” abilities are accompanied by a (Y) value; a space
cannon roll for such a unit consists of one die.
c  	 Game effects that reroll, modify, or otherwise affect combat
rolls do not affect space cannon rolls.
d  	 Game effects that allow the use of “Space Cannon” abilities
against ships in adjacent systems have no effect during
Space Cannon Defense.
77.8 STEP 2—ASSIGN HITS: The active player must choose and
destroy one of their ground forces on the planet for each hit the
space cannon roll produced.
a  	 Hits can only be assigned to units that are on the same
planet as the units using the “Space Cannon” ability.
78
SPACE COMBAT
After resolving the “Space Cannon Offense” step of a tactical
action, if two players have ships in the active system, those players
must resolve a space combat.
78.1 If the active player is the only player with ships in the system,
they skip the “Space Combat” step of the tactical action and
proceeds to the “Invasion” step.
78.2 If an ability occurs “before combat,” it occurs immediately
before the “Anti-Fighter Barrage” step.
a  	 During the first round of a combat, “start of combat” and
“start of combat round” effects occur during the same
timing window.
b  	 During the last round of a combat, “end of combat” and
“end of combat round” effects occur during the same timing
window.
To resolve a space combat, players perform the following steps:
78.3 STEP 1—ANTI-FIGHTER BARRAGE: If this is the first round
of a space combat, the players may simultaneously use the
“Anti-Fighter Barrage” ability of any of their units in the active
system.
a  	 If one or both players no longer have ships in the active
system after resolving this step, the space combat ends
immediately.
b  	 Players cannot resolve “Anti-Fighter Barrage” abilities
during any rounds of space combat other than the first
round.
c  	 This step still occurs if no fighters are present.
78.4 STEP 2—ANNOUNCE RETREATS: Each player may
announce a retreat, beginning with the defender.
a  	 A retreat will not occur immediately; the units retreat during
the “Retreat” step.
b  	 If the defender announces a retreat, the attacker cannot
announce a retreat during that combat round.
c  	 A player cannot announce a retreat if there is not at least
one eligible system to retreat to.
78.5 STEP 3—ROLL DICE: Each player rolls one die for each ship
they have in the active system; this is called a combat roll. If a
unit’s combat roll produces a result that is equal to or greater
than that unit’s combat value, that result produces a hit.
a  	 If a unit’s combat value contains two or more burst icons,
the player rolls one die for each burst icon instead.
b  	 If a player has ships that have different combat values in the
active system, that player rolls these dice separately.
c  	 First, that player should roll all dice for units with a combat
value of “1.” Then, that player should roll all dice for units
with combat value of “2,” and then “3,” continuing in
numerical order until that player has rolled dice for each of
their ships.
d  	 The player counts each hit their combat rolls produce. The
total number of hits produced will destroy units during the
“Assign Hits” step.
e  	 If a player has an ability that rerolls a die or affects a die
after it is rolled, that player must resolve such an ability
immediately after rolling all of their dice.
f  	 The attacker makes all of their combat rolls during this step
before the defender. This procedure is important for abilities
that allow a player to reroll an opponent’s die.
78.6 STEP 4—ASSIGN HITS: Each player in the combat must
choose and destroy one of their own ships in the active system
for each hit their opponent produced.
a  	 Before assigning hits, players may use their units’ “Sustain
Damage” abilities to cancel hits.
b  	 When a unit is destroyed, the player who controls that
unit removes it from the board and places it in their
reinforcements.
78.7 STEP 5—RETREAT: If a player announced a retreat during
step 2, and there is still an eligible system for their units to
retreat to, they must retreat.
a  	 If a player announced a retreat during the “Announce
Retreats” step, but their opponent has no ships remaining
in the system, the combat immediately ends and the retreat
does not occur.
b  	 To retreat, a player takes all of their ships with a move
value in the combat and moves them to a single system that
is adjacent to the active system. That player’s fighters and
ground forces in the space area of the active system that are
unable to move or be transported are removed.
c  	 The system that a player’s units retreat to must contain one
or more of that player’s units, a planet they control, or both.
Additionally, the system cannot contain ships controlled by
another player.
d  	 If any of a player’s units successfully retreat and are moved
into an adjacent system, that player must place a command
token from their reinforcements in the system to which
their units retreated. If that system already contains one
of their command tokens, that player does not place an
additional token there. If the player has no command tokens
in their reinforcements, that player must use one from their
command sheet instead.
78.8 After the “Retreat” step, if both players still have ships in the
active system, those players resolve another round of space
combat beginning with the “Announce Retreats” step.
78.9 Space combat ends when only one player—or neither player—
has a ship in the space area of the active system.
a  	 During the last round of a combat, “end of combat” and
“end of combat round” effects occur during the same timing
window.
78.10 After a combat ends, the player with one or more ships
remaining in the system is the winner of the combat; the other
player is the loser of the combat. If neither player has a ship
remaining, the combat ends in a draw and there is no winner.
a  	 If the winner of the combat has fighters or ground forces
in the space area of the active system and those units exceed
the capacity of that player’s ships in that system, that player
must choose and remove any excess units.
79
SPACE DOCK
A space dock is a structure that allows players to produce units.
79.1 Each space dock has a “Production” ability that indicates the
number of units it can produce.
79.2 The primary way in which players acquire space docks is
by resolving either the primary or secondary abilities of the
“Construction” strategy card.
79.3 Space docks are placed on planets. Each planet can have a
maximum of one space dock.
79.4 If a player’s space dock is ever on a planet that does not contain
any of their ground forces and contains a unit that belongs to
another player, that space dock is destroyed.
a  	 The Clan of Saar’s “Floating Factory” faction-specific space
dock is destroyed when it is blockaded; that is to say, when
it is in a system with another player’s ships and none of the
Clan of Saar’s ships.
80
SPEAKER
The speaker is the player who has the speaker token.
80.1 During the strategy phase, the speaker is the first player to
choose a strategy card.
80.2 During the agenda phase, the speaker reveals the top agenda
card from the agenda deck before each vote. The speaker is
always the last player to vote and decides which outcome to
resolve if the outcomes are tied.
80.3 During setup, the speaker prepares the objectives.
80.4 During the status phase, the speaker reveals a public objective.
80.5 A random player gains the speaker token during setup before
the game begins.
80.6 During the action phase, if a player resolves the primary ability
on the “Politics” strategy card, that player chooses any player
other than the current speaker to gain the speaker token.
80.7 If the speaker is eliminated from the game, the speaker token is
passed to the player to the speaker’s left.
81
STATUS PHASE
During the status phase, players score objectives and prepare for the
next game round. To resolve the status phase, players perform the
following steps:
81.1 STEP 1—SCORE OBJECTIVES: Following initiative order,
each player may score up to one public objective and one
secret objective that can be fulfilled during the status phase. To
score an objective, a player must fulfill the requirements on the
card; if that player does, they gain a number of victory points
indicated on the card.
81.2 STEP 2—REVEAL PUBLIC OBJECTIVE: The speaker reveals
an unrevealed public objective card by flipping that card
faceup.
a  	 The speaker cannot reveal “Stage II” objectives until all
“Stage I” objectives are revealed.
b  	 The game ends if there are no unrevealed public objectives
at the start of this step.
81.3 STEP 3—DRAW ACTION CARDS: Following initiative order,
each player draws one action card.
81.4 STEP 4—REMOVE COMMAND TOKENS: Each player
removes all of their command tokens from the game
board. Each player returns each removed token to their
reinforcements.
81.5 STEP 5—GAIN AND REDISTRIBUTE COMMAND TOKENS:
Each player gains two command tokens. A player takes each
gained token from their reinforcements. Then, each player can
redistribute each command token on their command sheet,
including the two they just gained, among their strategy, tactic,
and fleet pools.
a  	 Players should remember to check the number of their ships
in each system after reducing the size of their fleet pools.
b  	 This step can usually be resolved simultaneously, but if
there is a timing conflict, it is resolved in initiative order.
81.6 STEP 6—READY CARDS: Each player readies all of their
exhausted cards, including strategy cards.
81.7 STEP 7—REPAIR UNITS: Each player repairs all of their
damaged units by turning those units upright.
81.8 STEP 8—RETURN STRATEGY CARDS: Each player returns
their strategy card to the common play area. Then, if a player
has removed the custodians token from Mecatol Rex, the game
round continues to the agenda phase. Otherwise, a new game
round begins with the strategy phase.
82
STRATEGIC ACTION
During the action phase, the active player may perform a strategic
action to resolve the primary ability on their strategy card.
82.1 After the active player resolves the primary ability on their
strategy card, each other player, beginning with the player to
the left of the active player and proceeding clockwise, may
resolve that strategy card’s secondary ability.
a  	 Players do not have to resolve the secondary abilities of the
active player’s strategy card.
82.2 After each player has had an opportunity to resolve a strategy
card’s secondary ability, the active player exhausts their
strategy card so that it is facedown—this indicates that they
cannot use this card again this round and is a reminder that they
can now pass during one of their later turns.
a  	 During three- and four-player games, a player must resolve
the strategic action on each of their chosen strategy cards
before they can pass.
82.3 When a player is resolving either the primary or secondary
abilities from a strategy card, that player resolves each of the
ability’s effects from top to bottom.
83
STRATEGY CARD
Strategy cards determine initiative order
and provide each player with a powerful
ability that they can use one time during
the action phase.
83.1 During the strategy phase, each player
chooses a strategy card from the
common play area and places it in
their play area faceup.
83.2 Each strategy card has a readied and
an exhausted side.
a  	 The readied side contains the strategy card’s name, initiative
number, and abilities.
b  	 The exhausted side contains the strategy card’s initiative
number.
83.3 A player can only resolve the primary ability of their own
strategy cards.
83.4 A player can only resolve the secondary ability of strategy
cards that were chosen by other players.
83.5 There are eight strategy cards, each of which has a name and an
initiative number.
83.6 The initiative number on a player’s strategy card determines the
initiative order for the action phase and status phase.
83.7 A strategy card has both a primary ability and a secondary
ability. These abilities are resolved during a strategic action.
83.8 Each strategy card exists in either the common play area or a
player’s play area.
a  	 Strategy cards in the common play area are available for
players to choose during the strategy phase.
b  	 A strategy card in a player’s play area belongs to that player
until it is returned to the common play area during the status
phase.
84
STRATEGY PHASE
During the strategy phase, each player chooses a strategy card to use
during the round.
To resolve the strategy phase, players perform the following steps:
84.1 STEP 1—Starting with the speaker and proceeding clockwise,
each player chooses one strategy card from the common play
area and places it faceup in their play area.
a  	 If there are one or more trade good tokens on a strategy
card when a player chooses it, that player gains those trade
goods.
b  	 A player cannot choose a strategy card that another player
has already chosen during the current strategy phase.
c  	 When playing with three or four players, each player
will choose a second strategy card. After the last player
has received their first strategy card, each player chooses
a second strategy card, starting with the speaker and
proceeding clockwise.
84.2 STEP 2—The speaker places one trade good token from the
supply on each strategy card that was not chosen.
a  	 During a four- or eight-player game, all strategy cards
will be chosen, and therefore no trade good tokens will be
placed on strategy cards.
Then, players proceed to the action phase.
85
STRUCTURES
A structure is a type of unit. PDS units and space docks are
structures.
85.1 Structures are always placed on planets.
a  	 The Clan of Saar’s “Floating Factory” faction-specific space
dock is placed in a system’s space area.
85.2 Structures are primarily placed on planets using the
“Construction” strategy card.
85.3 Structures cannot move or be transported.
85.4 A player can have a maximum of one space dock on each
planet.
85.5 A player can have a maximum of two PDS units on each
planet.
85.6 A player cannot place a structure on a planet if it would exceed
the maximum number of allowed structures of that type on that
planet.
86 
SUPERNOVA
A supernova is an anomaly that affects movement.
86.1 A ship cannot move through or into a supernova.
87
SUSTAIN DAMAGE (UNIT ABILITY)
Some units have the “Sustain Damage” ability. Immediately before
a player assigns hits to their units, that player can use the “Sustain
Damage” ability of any of their units in the active system.
87.1 For each “Sustain Damage” ability that a player uses, one hit
produced by another player’s units is canceled. Then, each
unit using this ability is placed on its side to indicate that it is
damaged.
87.2 A damaged unit does not have reduced capabilities and is
functionally the same as an undamaged unit, except that it
cannot use the “Sustain Damage” ability.
87.3 A damaged unit cannot use the “Sustain Damage” ability until
it is repaired during the status phase or by another game effect.
87.4 A unit can use its “Sustain Damage” ability any time a hit is
produced against it. This includes hits produced during combat
and from unit abilities such as the “Space Cannon” ability.
a  	 A unit can only use the “Sustain Damage” ability if it
is eligible to be hit. For example, a player cannot use a
dreadnought’s “Sustain Damage” ability to cancel a hit from
“Anti-Fighter Barrage.”
87.5 The “Sustain Damage” ability cannot be used to cancel an
effect that directly destroys a unit.
87.6 The Barony of Letnev’s “Non-Euclidean Shielding” faction
technology allows the Letnev player’s units with the “Sustain
Damage” ability to cancel up to two hits instead of one.
88
SYSTEM TILES
A system tile represents an area of the galaxy. Players place system
tiles during setup to create the game board.
88.1 The back of each system tile is colored green, blue, or red.
88.2 System tiles with a green-colored back are home systems and
faction-specific tiles. Each home system is unique to one of the
game’s factions.
88.3 System tiles with a blue-colored back each contain one or more
planets.
88.4 System tiles with a red-colored back are anomalies or are
systems that do not contain planets.
88.5 Planets are located in systems. Ground forces and structures are
usually placed on planets.
88.6 Any area on a system tile that is not a planet is space. Ships are
usually placed in the space area.
88.7 Double-sided tiles that have lines crossing from one edge to
another are hyperlane tiles. Hyperlane tiles are not systems.
89
TACTICAL ACTION
The tactical action is the primary method by which players produce
units, move ships, and extend their dominion within the galaxy. To
perform a tactical action, the active player performs the following
steps:
89.1 STEP 1—ACTIVATION: The active player must activate a
system that does not contain one of their command tokens.
a  	 To activate a system, the active player places a command
token from their tactic pool in that system. That system is
the active system.
b  	 Other players’ command tokens do not prevent a player
from activating a system.
89.2 STEP 2—MOVEMENT: The active player may move any
number of ships that have a sufficient move value from any
number of systems that do not contain one of their command
tokens into the active system, following the rules for
movement.
a  	 Ships that have capacity values can transport ground forces
and fighters when moving.
b  	 The player may choose to not move any ships.
c  	 After the “Move Ships” step, all players can use the “Space
Cannon” abilities of their units in the active system.
89.3 STEP 3—SPACE COMBAT: If two players have ships in the
active system, those players must resolve a space combat.
a  	 If the active player is the only player with ships in the
system, they skip this step.
89.4 STEP 4—INVASION: The active player may use their
“Bombardment” abilities, commit units to land on planets, and
resolve ground combat against other players’ units.
89.5 STEP 5—PRODUCTION: The active player may resolve each
of their unit’s “Production” abilities in the active system.
a  	 The active player may do this even if they did not move
units or land ground forces during this tactical action.
90 
TECHNOLOGY
Technology cards allow players to
upgrade units and acquire powerful
abilities.
90.1 Each player places any technology
they have gained faceup near their
faction sheet. For the duration of
the game, they own any technology cards they gain and can use
the abilities on those cards.
90.2 A player does not own any technology card that is in their
technology deck.
90.3 A player can gain a technology card from their technology deck
by researching technology.
a  	 Both the primary and secondary abilities of the
“Technology” strategy card allow a player to research a
technology.
90.4 Any technology card that a player has not gained remains
in their technology deck. A player can look through their
technology deck at any time.
90.5 If an ability instructs a player to gain a technology, they do not
research it; they take it from their technology deck and place it
in their play area, ignoring prerequisites.
90.6 Some technologies are unit upgrades. Unit upgrades share a
name with a unit that is printed on a player’s faction sheet.
a  	 Players place any unit upgrades they gain faceup on their
faction sheets, covering the unit that shares a name with that
upgrade card.
90.7 Each technology that is not a unit upgrade has a colored symbol
displayed in the lower-right corner of the card and on its card
back that indicates that technology’s color.
a  	 A technology’s color has no inherent game effect; however,
each technology a player owns can satisfy a prerequisite of
a matching color when researching other technology.
b  	 Unit upgrades do not have a color and do not satisfy
prerequisites.
c  	 There are four colors of technologies as follows:
90.8 Most technology cards have a column of colored symbols
displayed in the lower-left corner of the card. Each symbol in
this column is a prerequisite.
a  	 A technology card’s prerequisites indicate the number and
color of technologies a player must own to research that
technology card.
90.9 RESEARCHING TECHNOLOGY
A player can research technology by resolving either the primary
or secondary ability of the “Technology” strategy card during the
action phase. Other game effects may also instruct a player to
research technology.
90.10 To research technology, a player gains that technology card
from their technology deck and places it in their play area near
their faction sheet.
a  	 Players place any unit upgrades they gain faceup on their
faction sheets, covering the unit that shares a name with that
upgrade card.
90.11 A player cannot research a faction technology that does not
match their faction.
90.12 When researching technology, a player must satisfy each
of a technology’s prerequisites to research it. To satisfy
a technology’s prerequisites, that player must own one
technology of the matching color for each prerequisite symbol
on the technology card they wish to research.
a  	 Prerequisites symbols are displayed as symbols on the
lower-left corner of the card.
b  	 Unit upgrade technologies do not have a color and do not
satisfy prerequisites.
c  	 Players may use certain abilities or technology specialties to
ignore some prerequisites.
90.13 TECHNOLOGY SPECIALTIES
A technology specialty is a technology symbol found on some
planets.
90.14 When researching technology, a player can exhaust a planet
they control that has a technology specialty to ignore one
prerequisite symbol of the matching type on the technology
card they are researching.
90.15 If the planet card is already exhausted, it cannot be used to
ignore a prerequisite.
90.16 VALEFAR ASSIMILATOR
The Nekro Virus faction can use its faction abilities in combination
with its two “Valefar Assimilator” faction technologies to gain
faction technologies that have been researched by other players,
including unit upgrades.
90.17 Basic units printed on faction sheets are not technologies and
are not eligible targets for “Valefar Assimilator.”
90.18 If a player becomes eliminated while one of their technologies
has a Valefar Assimilator token on it, the Nekro Virus player
places that technology in their play area; it is not removed from
the game.
90.19 If a Valefar Assimilator token is removed from the Saar
“Floating Factory” unit upgrade, each of the Nekro Virus’ space
docks must be placed on an eligible planet they control in that
space dock’s system, or the space dock is returned to their
reinforcements.
90.20 If a Valefar Assimilator token is removed from a war sun unit
upgrade and the Nekro Virus player does not have the standard
war sun unit upgrade, each of the Nekro Virus player’s war
suns are returned to their reinforcements.
90.21 The Nekro Virus player may upgrade their units with units of
the same type (e.g., “dreadnought” or “infantry”) even if those
unit’s names do not match. If the Nekro Virus gains a unit
upgrade technology of the same unit type as a unit upgrade
technology they already have, the previous upgrade is removed,
and they must use the same Valefar Assimilator token that was
used to copy the previous upgrade.
90.22 When a Valefar Assimilator token is on a technology, that
technology’s color and type count toward objectives.
91
TECHNOLOGY (STRATEGY CARD)
The “Technology” strategy card allows players to research new
technology. This card’s initiative value is “7.”
91.1 During the action phase, if the active player has the
“Technology” strategy card, they can perform a strategic action
to resolve that card’s primary ability.
91.2 To resolve the primary ability on the “Technology” strategy
card, the active player can research one technology of their
choice. Then, they may research one additional technology of
their choice by spending six resources.
91.3 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Technology” strategy card, each other player, beginning
with the player to the left of the active player and proceeding
clockwise, may research one technology of their choice by
spending one command token from their strategy pool and four
resources.
92
TRADE (STRATEGY CARD)
The “Trade” strategy card allows players to gain trade goods and
replenish commodities. This card’s initiative value is “5.”
92.1 During the action phase, if the active player has the “Trade”
strategy card, they can perform a strategic action to resolve
that card’s primary ability. To resolve the primary ability on the
“Trade” strategy card, the active player resolves the following
effects in order:
92.2 STEP 1—The active player gains 3 trade goods.
92.3 STEP 2—The active player replenishes their commodities by
taking the number of commodity tokens necessary to have an
amount equal to the commodity value on their faction sheet.
Then, they place those tokens in the commodity area of their
faction sheet.
a  	 A player cannot have more commodities than the
commodity value printed on their faction sheet.
92.4 STEP 3—The active player chooses any number of other
players. Those players use the secondary ability of this card
without spending a command token.
a  	 The chosen players must resolve the secondary ability of
this card without spending a command token after the active
player finishes resolving the primary ability.
b  	 The chosen players can only use the secondary ability once,
and they cannot use it by spending command tokens.
92.5 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Trade” strategy card, each other player, beginning with the
player to the left of the active player and proceeding clockwise,
may spend one command token from their strategy pool to
replenish their commodities.
93
TRADE GOODS
A trade good represents a player’s buying and
trading power beyond their planet’s raw resources.
93.1 Trade goods and commodities are represented
by opposite sides of the same token.
93.2 When a player gains a trade good, they take a
trade good token from the supply and place it on the trade good
area on their command sheet, making sure the trade good side
is faceup.
93.3 A player can spend trade goods at any time during the game.
93.4 A player can spend a trade good in one of the following ways:
a  	 In place of spending one resource.
b  	 In place of spending one influence. However, trade goods
cannot be spent to cast votes during the agenda phase.
c  	 To resolve an effect that specifically requires that a trade
good be spent.
93.5 A player can exchange their trade goods with other players
during a transaction.
93.6 When a player receives a commodity token from another
player, the player who received that token places it in their
trade good area with the trade good side of the token faceup.
a  	 That token is no longer a commodity token; it is a trade
good token.
93.7 Trade good tokens come in values of one and three. A player
can swap between these tokens as necessary.
94
TRANSACTIONS
A transaction is a way for a player to exchange commodities, trade
goods, promissory notes, and relic fragments.
94.1 During the active player’s turn, they may resolve up to one
transaction with each of their neighbors.
a  	 A player can resolve a transaction at any time during their
turn, even during a combat.
b  	 The chosen players can only use the secondary ability once,
and they cannot use it by spending command tokens.
92.5 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Trade” strategy card, each other player, beginning with the
player to the left of the active player and proceeding clockwise,
may spend one command token from their strategy pool to
replenish their commodities.
93
TRADE GOODS
A trade good represents a player’s buying and
trading power beyond their planet’s raw resources.
93.1 Trade goods and commodities are represented
by opposite sides of the same token.
93.2 When a player gains a trade good, they take a
trade good token from the supply and place it on the trade good
area on their command sheet, making sure the trade good side
is faceup.
93.3 A player can spend trade goods at any time during the game.
93.4 A player can spend a trade good in one of the following ways:
a  	 In place of spending one resource.
b  	 In place of spending one influence. However, trade goods
cannot be spent to cast votes during the agenda phase.
c  	 To resolve an effect that specifically requires that a trade
good be spent.
93.5 A player can exchange their trade goods with other players
during a transaction.
93.6 When a player receives a commodity token from another
player, the player who received that token places it in their
trade good area with the trade good side of the token faceup.
a  	 That token is no longer a commodity token; it is a trade
good token.
93.7 Trade good tokens come in values of one and three. A player
can swap between these tokens as necessary.
RELATED TOPICS: Commodities, Deals, Influence, Resources,
Transactions
94
TRANSACTIONS
A transaction is a way for a player to exchange commodities, trade
goods, promissory notes, and relic fragments.
94.1 During the active player’s turn, they may resolve up to one
transaction with each of their neighbors.
a  	 A player can resolve a transaction at any time during their
turn, even during a combat.
94.2 To resolve a transaction, a player gives any number of trade
goods and commodities and up to one promissory note to
a neighbor in exchange for any number of trade goods,
commodities, and relic fragments, and up to one promissory note.
94.3 Players can exchange commodities, trade goods, promissory
notes, and relic fragments, but cannot exchange other types of
cards or tokens.
a  	 The Emirates of Hacan can also exchange action cards with
other players as part of their transactions.
94.4 A transaction does not have to be even. A player may exchange
components of unequal value or give components without
receiving something in return.
a  	 The players agree on the terms of the transaction before
exchanging any components. After the components are
traded, the transaction cannot be undone.
94.5 Players can resolve a transaction as part of a deal.
94.6 While resolving each agenda during the agenda phase, a player
may perform one transaction with each other player.
a  	 Players do not need to be neighbors to perform these
transactions.
95
TRANSPORT
When a ship moves, it may transport any combination of fighters
and ground forces, but the number of units it transports cannot
exceed that ship’s capacity value.
95.1 The ship can pick up and transport fighters and ground forces
when it moves. During a tactical action, it can pick up and
transport units from the active system, the system it started its
movement in, and each system it moves through.
a  	 These transported units remain with the transporting ship
until it is finished moving.
b  	 Units being transported by a ship that is removed from the
board by a gravity rift are also removed from the board.
95.2 Any fighters and ground forces that a ship transports must
move with the ship and remain in the space area of a system.
95.3 Fighters and ground forces cannot be picked up from a system
that contains one of their faction’s command tokens other than
the active system.
95.4 A player can land ground forces on a planet in a system during
the “Invasion” step of a tactical action.
96 UNITS
A unit is represented by a plastic figure.
96.1 There are three types of units: ships, ground forces, and
structures.
96.2 Each color of plastic comes with the following units:
•
3 Space Docks
•
6 PDS units
•
8 Destroyers
•
8 Cruisers
•
2 War Suns
•
12 Infantry
•
10 Fighters
•
4 Carriers
•
5 Dreadnoughts
•
1 Flagship
•
4 Mechs
96.3 Units exist either on the game board or in a player’s
reinforcements.
97
UNIT UPGRADES
A unit upgrade is a type of technology card.
97.1 Unit upgrades share a name with a unit that is printed on a
player’s faction sheet, but have a higher roman numeral. For
example, a player’s “Carrier I” unit is upgraded by the unit
upgrade technology “Carrier II.”
a  	 The Nekro Virus player may upgrade their units with units
of the same type (e.g., “dreadnought” or “infantry”) even if
those unit’s names do not match. If the Nekro Virus gains
a unit upgrade technology of the same unit type as a unit
upgrade technology they already have, the previous upgrade
is removed, and they must use the same Valefar Assimilator
token that was used to copy the previous upgrade.
97.2 Players place unit upgrades they gain faceup on their faction
sheets, covering the unit that shares a name with that upgrade
card.
97.3 The white arrows next to an attribute on a faction sheet indicate
that the attribute will improve when the unit is upgraded.
97.4 After a player gains a unit upgrade card, each of that player’s
units that correspond to that upgrade card is treated as having
the attributes and abilities printed on that upgrade card. Any
previous attributes of that unit, such as the one printed on that
player’s faction sheet, are ignored.
97.5 A mech unit card is not a technology.
98
VICTORY POINTS
The first player to gain 10 victory points wins the game.
98.1 Players gain victory points in a variety of ways. A common way
that a player can gain victory points is by scoring objectives.
98.2 Each player uses the victory point track to indicate the number
of victory points they have gained.
a  	 If the players are using the 14-space side of the victory
point track, the game ends and a player wins when they
have 14 victory points instead of 10.
98.3 Each player places one of their control tokens on space “0” of
the victory point track during setup.
98.4 When a player gains a victory point, they advance their control
token a number of spaces along the victory point track equal to
the number of victory points gained.
a  	 A player’s control token must always be on the space of the
victory point track that shows a number that matches the
number of victory points that player has gained during the
game. A player cannot have more than 10 victory points.
98.5 If an ability refers to the player with the “most” or “fewest”
victory points, and more than one player is tied in that respect,
the effect applies to all of the tied players.
98.6 If a player gains a victory point from a law, and that law is
discarded, that player does not lose that victory point.
98.7 The game ends immediately when one player has 10 victory
points. If multiple players would simultaneously gain their
10th victory point, the player who is earliest in initiative order
among those players is the winner; if this occurs when players
do not have strategy cards, the player who is nearest the speaker
(including the speaker) in clockwise order is the winner.
98.8 If the game ends because the speaker cannot reveal an objective
card, the player with the most victory points is the winner. If
one or more players are tied for having the most victory points,
the tied player who is first in initiative order is the winner.
99
WARFARE (STRATEGY CARD)
The “Warfare” strategy card allows a player to remove a command
token from the board and redistribute their command tokens
between their tactic, fleet, and strategy pools. This card’s initiative
value is “6.” During the action phase, if the active player has the
“Warfare” strategy card, they can perform a strategic action to
resolve that card’s primary ability.
To resolve the primary ability on the “Warfare” strategy card, the
active player performs the following steps:
99.1 STEP 1—The active player removes any one of their command
tokens from the game board. Then, that player gains that
command token by placing it in a pool of their choice on their
command sheet.
99.2 STEP 2—The active player can redistribute their command
tokens.
99.3 After the active player resolves the primary ability of the
“Warfare” strategy card, each other player, beginning with the
player to the left of the active player and proceeding clockwise,
may spend one command token from their strategy pool to resolve
the “Production” ability of one space dock in their home system.
a  	 The command token is not placed in their home system.
100 WORMHOLE NEXUS
The wormhole nexus is a system tile where several wormholes
converge.
100.1 The wormhole nexus begins the game in play with its inactive
side up.
a  	 The inactive side of the wormhole nexus contains a gamma
wormhole. The active side of the wormhole nexus contains
an alpha, beta, and gamma wormhole.
b  	 The wormhole nexus is treated as part of the game board.
c  	 The wormhole nexus is on the edge of the game board.
100.2 After a player moves or places a unit into the wormhole nexus,
or gains control of the planet Mallice, that player flips the
wormhole nexus to its active side.
a  	 When a ship moves into the wormhole nexus, the nexus
becomes active at the end of the “Movement” step.
101 WORMHOLES
Some systems contain wormholes. Systems that contain identical
wormholes are adjacent.
101.1 There are two basic types of wormholes: alpha and beta.
101.2 If a player has a PDS unit upgrade technology, they can use the
“Space Cannon” abilities of their PDS units through wormholes.
101.3 Players can be neighbors and perform transactions through
wormholes.
101.4 There are two advanced types of wormhole: delta and gamma.
These wormholes follow all other wormhole rules.
a  	 The delta wormholes are present on the Creuss Gate system
tile and the Ghosts of Creuss home system tile.
b  	 The gamma wormholes are present on the wormhole nexus
and can be discovered during exploration.
102
ERRATA
This section contains errata for game components.
102.1 BRIBERY
The text of the action card “Bribery” should read as follows: “After
the speaker votes on an agenda: Spend any number of trade goods. For
each trade good spent, cast 1 additional vote for the outcome on which
you voted.”
102.2 DEVOTION
The text of the Yin Brotherhood’s “Devotion” faction ability should
read as follows: “After each space battle round, you may destroy 1
of your cruisers or destroyers in the active system to produce 1 hit
and assign it to 1 of your opponent’s ships in that system.”
102.3 DIPLOMACY
The text of the “Diplomacy” strategy card’s primary ability should
read as follows: “Choose 1 system other than the Mecatol Rex
system that contains a planet you control; each other player places
a command token from their reinforcements in that system. Then,
ready up to 2 exhausted planets you control.”
The text of the “Diplomacy” strategy card’s secondary ability
should read as follows: “Spend 1 token from your strategy pool to
ready up to 2 exhausted planets you control.”
102.4 DIRECT HIT
The text of the “Direct Hit” action card should read as follows:
“After another player’s ship uses ‘Sustain Damage’ to cancel a hit
produced by your units or abilities: Destroy that ship.”
102.5 HARROW
The text of the L1Z1X’s “Harrow” faction ability should read as
follows: “At the end of each round of ground combat, your ships in
the active system may use their bombardment abilities against your
opponent’s ground forces on the planet.”
102.6 HEGEMONIC TRADE POLICY
The text of the Winnu faction technology “Hegemonic Trade
Policy” should read as follows: “Exhaust this card when 1 or more
of your units use ‘Production;’ swap the resource and influence
values of 1 planet you control during that use of ‘Production.’”
102.7 HYPER METABOLISM
The text of the “Hyper Metabolism” technology should read as follows:
“During the status phase, gain 3 command tokens instead of 2.”
102.8 MATRIARCH
The text of the Naalu flagship “Matriarch” should read as follows:
“During an invasion in this system, you may commit fighters to
planets as if they were ground forces. When combat ends, return
those units to the space area.”
102.9 POLITICAL FAVOR
The text of the Xxcha promissory note “Political Favor” should read
as follows: “When an agenda is revealed: Remove 1 token from the
Xxcha player’s strategy pool and return it to their reinforcements.
Then, discard the revealed agenda and reveal 1 agenda from the top
of the deck. Players vote on this agenda instead. Then, return this
card to the Xxcha player.”
102.10 UNSTABLE PLANET
The text of the “Unstable Planet” action card should read as follows:
“Action: Choose 1 hazardous planet. Exhaust that planet and destroy
up to 3 infantry on it.”
102.11 VETO
The text of the “Veto” action card should read as follows: “When an
agenda is revealed: Discard that agenda and reveal 1 agenda from the
top of the deck. Players vote on this agenda instead.”
103 
FAQ
This section contains answers to frequently asked questions.
103.1 GENERAL
103.2 Q: Are the “0” faces of the ten-sided dice included with the game
intended to represent the result of a “10”?
A: Yes, the “0” face is a “10” result.
103.3 Q: How should a space combat be resolved if it is mathematically
impossible for either side to win—for example, certain
configurations of ships using the “Non-Euclidean Shielding” and
“Duranium Armor” technologies in concert?
A: If neither side has the potential to win, the attacker must retreat.
If they cannot retreat, their units in the combat are destroyed.
103.4 Q: Can fighters block ship movement?
A: Yes, fighters can block ship movement (this was added as a
correction in the Living Rules Reference version 1.1).
103.5 Q: Does each unit participating in “Bombardment” or “Space
Cannon” roll an additional die for the “Plasma Scoring”
technology?
A: No. “Plasma Scoring” only grants one additional die for each
“Bombardment” or “Space Cannon” roll, and the unit benefiting
from this technology must be decided before rolling.
103.6 Q: Does “Planetary Shield” prevent the use of “X-89 Bacterial
Weapon”?
A: No. “X-89 Bacterial Weapon” is not part of bombardment, so it
is not prevented by “Planetary Shield.”
103.7 Q: Can units be picked up and transported off of planets when using
abilities that move ships, such as the “Skilled Retreat” action card
or “Foresight” faction ability?
A: Yes. Any effect that moves a ship allows that ship to transport
units in its system, if it has available capacity.
103.8 Q: Can you intentionally reveal hidden information to another
player, such as an action card from your hand or your secret
objective?
A: Yes. This information is kept hidden by default, but it is
permissible to reveal it to another player or players as a strategic
option.
103.9 Q: What happens to infantry that would be placed on a planet in
any player’s home system by the effect of the “Infantry II” unit
upgrade technology if that player does not own any planets in their
home system?
A: When those infantry would be placed on a home planet, they are
returned to that player’s reinforcements instead.
103.10 Q: Can a card (such as a promissory note) with a specified timing
of a certain window that is acquired from a transaction during that
window be played immediately?
A: Yes. For example, a promissory note with “At the start of your
turn:” timing may be immediately played if the transaction occurred
within the “start of turn” timing window.
103.11 Q: When the player resolving the “Trade” strategy card selects
another player to resolve the “Trade” secondary ability for free,
does the player resolving the effect for free do so during the
execution of the primary ability or the secondary ability?
A: They must resolve this effect during the resolution of the
secondary ability as normal, but they do not have to spend a
command token to do so.
103.12 Q: If a player would refresh their commodities but already has the
maximum amount, can another player still play that player’s “Trade
Agreement” promissory note against them?
A: Yes. Even if that player gains zero commodities when their
commodities are refreshed, their “Trade Agreement” may still be
played against them.
103.13 Q: Does the “Neural Motivator” technology give an additional
action card for both the standard status phase draw as well as the
“Minister of Policy” agenda? What about the Yssaril’s “Scheming”
faction ability?
A: No. “Neural Motivator” gives only one action card in addition
to the standard status phase draw. It is not triggered additional times
by other abilities. The Yssaril’s “Scheming” ability, however, is
triggered each time that action cards are drawn.
103.14 Q: Does the “Political Secret” promissory note disable passive/
mandatory faction abilities, such as the Barony of Letnev’s
“Armada” faction ability, when it is used against that player?
A: No. The “Political Secret” promissory note only prevents the use
of faction abilities that a player must choose to use.
103.15 Q: Does the “Political Secret” promissory note prevent a player
from using faction-specific technology?
A: No. The “Political Secret” promissory note does not prevent a
player from using faction-specific technology, nor does it prevent
the use of other abilities, such as those from agendas that a player
might own.
103.16 Q: Can the “Turn Their Fleets to Dust” objective be fulfilled by
using a “Direct Hit” action card or by destroying a unit with
capacity and allowing transported fighters to be removed as a
result?
A: No. In both situations, the “Space Cannon” ability did not
destroy the last ship in the system, so the objective is not fulfilled.
103.17 Q: If a player has multiple planets with PDS that are being invaded
in a single system, does the “Plasma Scoring” technology add one
die to each planet’s space cannon roll or for only one planet’s space
cannon roll?
A: The “Plasma Scoring” technology adds one die for each space
planet’s “Space Cannon” roll.
103.18 PRODUCTION
103.19 Q: When an ability other than “Production” allows you to produce
one or more units, do you have to pay for the units produced?
A: Yes, a unit that is produced must always be paid for.
103.20 Q: When producing a unit with an ability other than “Production,”
does the price reduction from the “Sarween Tools” technology apply?
A: No, “Sarween Tools” is only used with the “Production” ability.
103.21 AGENDAS
103.22 Q: When a “Research Team” agenda that is attached to a planet is
used to ignore a prerequisite, is the planet exhausted?
A: No. The agenda is exhausted, not the planet.
103.23 Q: Can a player cast zero votes “For” or “Against” on an
agenda instead of abstaining, in order to take advantage of effects
associated with that option?
A: No. A vote of zero is the same as abstaining; that player gains
no positive or negative effects of voting “For” or “Against” on an
agenda if they contributed zero votes.
103.24 Q: Does the “Enforced Travel Ban” agenda prevent “Space
Cannon” usage through wormholes?
A: No. “Enforced Travel Ban” does not prevent “Space Cannon”
usage.
103.25 Q: If the “Classified Document Leaks” agenda is discarded, what
happens?
A: The secret objective remains in play; it is no longer a public
objective and cannot by scored by any additional players, but it
does not count toward the secret objective total of the player who
originally owned it.
103.26 Q: During a revote initiated by the “Miscount Disclosed” agenda,
does the law that is being voted on remain active and in play?
A: Yes, the law that is being voted on because of “Miscount
Disclosed” remains in play during the revote.
103.27 Q: If there is an ‘A’ wormhole on Mecatol Rex when the “Ixthian
Artifact” agenda causes units in adjacent systems to be destroyed,
does the Quantum Entanglement ability cause the Ghost of Creuss
faction to lose units in a system that contains a ‘B’ wormhole?
A: No. Only the Creuss treats those systems as adjacent.
103.28 Q: When units are destroyed by the “Ixthian Artifact” agenda, in
what order are they destroyed?
A: Units destroyed by “Ixthian Artifact” are destroyed
simultaneously.
103.29 Q: If a player’s “Political Secret” promissory note is used against
them, but that agenda is subsequently discarded by an effect such as
the “Veto” action card, can that player vote and use faction abilities
on the new agenda?
A: Yes. It is a new agenda and thus the effect of the player’s
“Political Secret” is ended.
103.30 Q: Can the “Colonial Redistribution” agenda elect a planet that
is already the target of “Demilitarized Zone,” and if so, can the
chosen player place infantry to take control of the planet?
A: Both agendas may target the same planet. However, in that
situation, infantry cannot be placed on the elected planet, so it
remains under the control of its original owner.
103.31 Q: When the “Holy Planet of Ixth,” “Shard of the Throne,” or “The
Crown of Emphidia” agendas are repealed, does the player who
owns them lose a victory point?
A: No, the player who gained a victory point from these agendas
can only lose that point through the effect stated on the card. If
the card is discarded in any other way, such as the “Repeal Law”
action card, the point is not lost.
103.32 Q: Is the trigger for the “Minister of War” agenda card’s ability
“performing an action”?
A: Yes. Performing any action is the trigger for the remainder of the
“Minister of War” agenda card’s ability.
103.33 ACTION CARDS
103.34 Q: Is the “Skilled Retreat” action card considered to be a retreat,
and can it be canceled by the action card “Intercept?”
A: No, “Skilled Retreat” is not a retreat and cannot be canceled in
this way.
103.35 Q: Can “Sustain Damage” be used against the “Courageous to the
End” action card?
A: No, “Courageous to the End” does not produce hits.
103.36 Q: Can two “Direct Hit” action cards be played by the same player
during the same round of combat against different targets?
A: Yes. Because the two “Direct Hit” cards are targeting different
targets, this is allowed.
103.37 Q: During space combat, can each player play a “Shields Holding”
action card to cancel hits against their own units, even though the
cards are being played during the same timing window?
A: Yes. Because each of the “Shields Holding” cards are targeting
different sets of hits (one set against player A and one set against
player B), it is legal to play both cards.
103.38 Q: Can the “Shields Holding” action card be used to cancel
hits from abilities that occur during combat, such as “Ambush,”
“Dimensional Splicer,” and “Devotion?”
A: Yes. “Shields Holding” may be used to cancel hits that are
produced by these abilities.
103.39 Q: Can the “Direct Hit” action cards be played when a ship
uses “Sustain Damage” to cancel a hit produced by one of your
abilities?
A: Yes. “Direct Hit” can be used to follow up hits that are assigned
by “Ambush,” “Dimensional Splicer,” “Devotion,” and other similar
abilities.
103.40 Q: Does an effect that casts “additional votes,” such as the
“Bribery” action card, create a timing window for playing the
“Distinguished Councilor” action card?
A: No. The “Distinguished Councilor” action card can only be
played after you vote during the “Vote” step of resolving an agenda.
103.41 Q: When during the action card playing process is a “Sabotage”
card played?
A: The “Sabotage” action can be played after card targets (such
as units, planets, systems, cards, outcomes, or players) have been
decided on, but must be played before any effects have been
resolved, votes have been cast, or any dice have been rolled.
103.42 Q: Can abilities that destroy units, such as the “Lucky Shot” action
card, be used by a player against their own units or planets?
A: No. “Lucky Shot” and other similar effects can only be used
against other player’s units and planets.
103.43 Q: Can multiple rider action cards be played by the same player on
a single agenda? If so, can they be played on different outcomes?
A: Yes to both. A player may play multiple rider action cards on a
single agenda, and they may be played on opposing outcomes.
103.44 Q: When playing the “Upgrade” action card, does the cruiser
already have to be present in the active system?
A: Yes. The cruiser must already be in the activated system.
103.45 Q: Can the “Experimental Battlestation” action card be used if
no ships move into the active system, or against ships that do not
belong to the active player?
A: No. “Experimental Battlestation” operates in the same timing window
as “Space Cannon Offense,” can only target the active player’s ships, and
can only be resolved if ships actually move into the active system.
103.46 Q: Can a player who cannot vote (such as the Nekro Virus) play
rider action cards?
A: Yes. The Nekro player, or a player who cannot vote due to
another effect, can still play rider action cards.
103.47 Q: If the speaker does not vote, can the “Bribery” action card still
be played?
A: Yes, even if the speaker cannot vote, or chooses not to vote,
the “Bribery” action card (or any effect with the timing window
of “after the speaker votes”) can still be played after the timing
window in which the speaker would have cast votes.
103.48 THE ARBOREC
103.49 Q: Can the secondary ability of the “Warfare” strategy card be used
to trigger the “Production” ability of the Arborec’s Letani Warriors?
A: No, the “Warfare” secondary ability can only be used to trigger
the “Production” ability of space docks, and thus cannot be used by
the Arborec to produce additional infantry.
103.50 Q: Does the Arborec flagship (The “Duha Menaimon”) need to be
in a system when it is activated to resolve its ability?
A: Yes. The “Duha Menaimon” can only be used to produce units
when it is in a system at the moment it is activated.
103.51 Q: Can the “Production” abilities of multiple Arborec “Letani
Warriors” in a system be combined to allow the production of two
infantry for one resource?
A: Yes. Production value is totaled when the “Production” ability of
units in a system is used.
THE NEKRO VIRUS
103.52 Q: Can the Nekro Virus use the “Valefar Assimilator” technologies
on printed faction units, such as the Embers of Muaat’s Prototype
War Sun I?
A: No, printed faction units are not technologies, and thus are
ineligible targets for “Valefar Assimilator.”
103.53 Q: Do infantry involved in a space combat due to the effects of “The
Alastor” flagship count as ships for the purpose of card effects and
fleet supply?
A: Infantry that are participating in space combat due to the effects
of “The Alastor” do count as ships (in addition to their own unit
type) for the purpose of card effects. But, as a unit that can be
transported, they do not count against fleet supply in that system.
103.54 Q: Do infantry involved in a space combat due to the effects of “The
Alastor” flagship cease participation in combat if the Alastor is
destroyed?
A: No. Infantry that are committed to the space combat due to the
effects of “The Alastor” continue to participate until the end of the
combat, even if “The Alastor” is destroyed.
103.55 Q: Can the Nekro Virus have both a standard and a faction-specific
unit upgrade of the same type?
A: Yes. Only the faction-specific unit upgrade technology will be
in effect, but should the Nekro lose the faction-specific upgrade
technology that is being copied by the “Valefar Assimilator,” they
would revert to the standard unit upgrade technology that was
previously inactive.
103.56 Q: If the Nekro Virus owns multiple unit upgrade technologies
of the same type, such as “Dreadnought II” and “Exotrireme
II,” does each one count toward the “Develop Weaponry” and
“Revolutionize Warfare” objectives?
A: No. Only one upgrade of a given type counts toward those
objectives.
103.57 Q: Do infantry involved in a space combat via the effects of “The
Alastor” flagship count toward the ships required to use the
“Assault Cannon” technology?
A: Yes. These infantry may be used to resolve “Assault Cannon.”
103.58 Q: Does the Winnu “Salai Sai Corian” flagship get additional dice
for infantry participating in a fight due to the Nekro “Alastor”
flagship?
A: Yes. The “Salai Sai Corian” would get one additional die per
infantry.
103.59 THE EMIRATES OF HACAN
103.60 Q: Does the Hacan player have to initiate negotiations to perform a
transaction with a player who is not their neighbor?
A: As long as the active player is involved in the transaction,
either player may suggest the opening of negotiations during either
player’s turn.
103.61 THE XXCHA KINGDOM
103.62 Q: Can the Xxcha use the “Peace Accords” faction ability from one
planet to another planet in the same system?
A: Yes, a planet is treated as being adjacent to its own system.
103.63 THE GHOSTS OF CREUSS
103.64 Q: Can the Creuss Promissory note still be used if the Creuss have
not researched “Wormhole Generator”?
A: Yes, the promissory note does not require that the “Wormhole
Generator” technology is researched.
103.65 Q: Can the “Light/Wave Deflector” technology be used to move through
a wormhole created by the Ghosts of Creuss’ “Hil Colish” flagship?
A: Yes, “Light/Wave Deflector” allows a player other than the
Ghosts of Creuss to move their fleet through the “Hil Colish’s”
system into the Creuss home system or the Creuss Gate system.
103.66 Q: If the “Hil Colish” moves before other ships and is returned to
reinforcements by a gravity rift, can other ships still use its delta
wormhole to reach the active system?
A: No, the wormhole ceases to exist when the “Hil Colish” is
returned to reinforcements.
103.67 THE NAALU COLLECTIVE
103.68 Q: Does “The Matriarch” flagship allow the Naalu to gain control
of a planet using only fighters?
A: No. The Naalu fighters return to the space area when ground
combat ends. If no Naalu ground forces are present, the combat is
considered to be a draw, and the Naalu do not gain control of the
planet during the “Establish Control” step.
103.69 Q: Using “The Matriarch” flagship in combination with the
“Dacxive Animators” technology, can the Naalu gain control of a
planet using only fighters?
A: No. Because the combat ends in a draw, the “Dacxive
Animators” ability is not triggered.
103.70 Q: Does the Naalu “0” token move with the strategy card it is
placed on if the card is exchanged with or taken by another player?
A: No. The Naalu “0” token stays with the Naalu or the faction that
gained the token through the “Gift of Prescience” promissory note
and is placed on any of that player’s strategy cards.
103.71 THE CLAN OF SAAR
103.72 Q: Can the Clan of Saar’s “Chaos Mapping” faction-specific
technology be used at the start of each of that player’s turns during
the action phase?
A: Yes, “Chaos Mapping” can be used as many times as you have
turns during the action phase.
103.73 Q: Can the Clan of Saar’s “Chaos Mapping” faction-specific
technology be used on the turn that the Saar player passes?
A: Yes, “Chaos Mapping” can be used on the turn that a player passes.
103.74 Q: Can the Clan of Saar’s “Floating Factories” trigger Space
Cannon Offense or be assigned hits produced by PDS units?
A: No, “Floating Factories” cannot be the target of PDS fire.
103.75 THE MENTAK COALITION
103.76 Q: Can the Mentak Coalition use the “Salvage Operations”
faction-specific technology to produce a war sun that was
destroyed if they do not personally have war sun technology?
A: No. Without war sun technology, they cannot produce a
war sun, even using “Salvage Operations.”
103.77 Q: Can the Mentak Coalition use the “Salvage Operations” faction-
specific technology to produce their own flagship after destroying an
opponent’s flagship?
A: Yes, even though the units are technically different, they share
the flagship unit type.
103.78 Q: Can the Mentak Coalition use the “Salvage Operations” faction-
specific technology to produce infantry after a combat against the
Nekro Virus flagship “The Alastor” in which Nekro Virus infantry
were treated like ships and were subsequently destroyed?
A: No, the infantry do not count as ships once the combat is over.
103.79 Q: Can the Mentak Coalition use the “Pillage” faction ability to
steal trade goods when they are neighbors with another faction as a
result of the “Lazax Gate Folding” faction technology or “Quantum
Entanglement” faction ability?
A: Yes, even in the case of “Quantum Entanglement” only being
active from the Creuss’ point of view, because the ‘neighbor’ status
is active as a result of the ability, the Mentak may use their “Pillage”
in these situations.
103.80 Q: Can the Mentak Coalition use the “Pillage” faction ability for
each time the Saar gain a trade good from the “Scavenge” faction
ability in a single turn, provided that the other requirements are
met?
A: Yes. The Mentak can trigger “Pillage” each time the Saar gain
control of a planet, if all the conditions of “Pillage” are met.
104
COMPLETE SETUP
This section describes how to set up a game using all of the
advanced rules. Note that some of these steps vary slightly from the
“First-Game Setup” rules.
104.1 STEP 1—DETERMINE SPEAKER: Randomly determine one player
to gain the speaker token; that player is the speaker.
104.2 STEP 2 —CHOOSE FACTIONS: Each player chooses one faction
sheet; this is their faction for the game. Each player places their
faction sheet in their play area.
104.3 STEP 3—GATHER FACTION COMPONENTS: Each player takes
the following components that have their faction’s icon:
•
1 home system tile
•
17 control tokens
•
16 command tokens
•
1 faction promissory
note
•
2 faction technology
cards
•
3 leader cards
•
1 mech unit card
•
additional faction-
specific components*
Each player places each of their faction components near their
faction sheet. Players return all unused faction components to the
game box.
*NOTE: Only the Naalu Collective, the Nekro Virus, the Ghosts
of Creuss, the Embers of Muaat, the Vuil’raith Cabal, the Nomad,
the Empyrean, and the Titans of Ul have additional faction-specific
components.
104.4 STEP 4—CHOOSE COLOR: Each player chooses one color and
takes the following components that correspond to that color.
•
63 plastic units
•
1 command sheet
•
1 leader sheet
•
33 technology cards
•
5 promissory notes
Each player combines their color-specific and faction technology
cards into one technology deck and their color-specific and faction
promissory note cards into one promissory note deck. Then,
each player places their decks in their play area along with their
command sheet and plastic units.
Then, each player places their leader sheet in their play area. They
then place their agent, commander, and hero leader cards as well as
their mech unit card in the corresponding slots. All leaders are placed
showing the side that has the slot icon in the upper-right corner.
104.5 STEP 5—DISTRIBUTE STARTING PLANET CARDS: Each player
takes the planet cards that correspond to the planets in their home
system and places those cards faceup in their play area.
104.6 STEP 6—CREATE GAME BOARD: Place the Mecatol Rex system
tile in the center of the common play area—this is the center of the
galaxy. The galaxy will consist of either three or four rings around
Mecatol Rex. Each player’s home systems will be in a set position
in the third ring. Use the “Game Board Setup” diagram to estimate
where players’ home systems will be placed based on each player’s
position around the game area.
Next, if the desired game board setup uses hyperlane tiles, gather
the following hyperlane tiles and place them exactly as shown in
corresponding diagram on page 6:
•
FIVE-PLAYER (HYPERLANES): 83A, 84A, 85A, 86A,
87A, and 88A.
•
SEVEN-PLAYER: 83A, 84A, 85A, 86A, 87A, and 88A.
•
SEVEN-PLAYER (ALTERNATE): 83B, 84B, 85B, 86B, 88B,
and 90B.
•
EIGHT-PLAYER (ALTERNATE): 83B, 85B, 87A, 88A, 89B,
and 90B.
Place the wormhole nexus in the common play area so the side that
shows only the gamma wormhole is faceup. Place the 3 gamma
wormhole tokens next to the wormhole nexus.
Then, create the rest of game board following these steps:
104.6.1
SEPARATE SYSTEMS: Separate the system tiles into two
piles using the color on the back of each tile: one pile of
blue-backed system tiles and one pile of red-backed system
tiles. Green-backed system tiles are home systems and are
not separated into piles in this way.
104.6.2
DEAL SYSTEM TILES: Shuffle each pile of system tiles
facedown. Then, deal facedown system tiles to each player
according to player count and desired game board setup:
•
THREE-PLAYER: Six blue and two red tiles are dealt to each
player.
•
FOUR-PLAYER: Five blue and three red tiles are dealt to
each player.
•
FIVE-PLAYER (NO HYPERLANES): Four blue and two red
tiles are dealt to each player.
•
FIVE-PLAYER (HYPERLANES): Three blue and two red tiles
are dealt to each player.
•
SIX-PLAYER: Three blue and two red tiles are dealt to each
player.
•
SIX-PLAYER (LARGE GALAXY): Six blue and three red tiles
are dealt to each player.
•
SEVEN-PLAYER: Four blue and two red tiles are dealt to each
player.
•
SEVEN-PLAYER (ALTERNATE): Three blue and two red
tiles are dealt to each player.
•
EIGHT-PLAYER: Four blue and two red tiles are dealt to each
player.
•
EIGHT-PLAYER (ALTERNATE): Three blue and two red tiles
are dealt to each player.
NOTE: For some player counts and game board setups, additional
system tiles are required. Before placing system tiles for the
following setups, the speaker draws additional system tiles and
places them faceup in any space adjacent to Mecatol Rex:
•
FIVE-PLAYER (NO HYPERLANES): The speaker places
one red tile.
•
SEVEN-PLAYER: The speaker places two red and three
blue tiles.
•
EIGHT-PLAYER: The speaker places two red and two
blue tiles.
104.6.3
PLACE SYSTEM TILES: First, players place their home
systems in the approximate positions where they will connect
to the galaxy. Then, starting with the speaker and proceeding
clockwise, each player places one system tile faceup in
the first ring around Mecatol Rex. After the last player has
placed their first tile, they place a second tile. Then, the order
of tile placement reverses and proceeds counterclockwise,
until it reaches the speaker again, who places two tiles. Then,
tile placement reverses again and proceeds clockwise. This
process repeats until players have placed all of their tiles.
Each ring around Mecatol Rex must be fully built before
any tile can be placed in the next ring. Anomaly system tiles
cannot be placed next to one another unless there is no other
option. Additionally, system tiles that contain the same type
of wormhole cannot be placed next to one another unless
there is no other option. After placing all of the dealt system
tiles, players attach their home systems to the rest of the
galaxy.
NOTE: During a five-player game that does not use hyperlanes,
three players will have a slight disadvantage because of their home
systems’ starting positions on the game board. After creating the
game board, those players receive trade goods according to their
positions. Use the diagram on page 6 to determine how many trade
goods each of those players receives.
104.7 STEP 7—PLACE GAME BOARD TOKENS: Place the custodians
token in the center of the game board on Mecatol Rex.
Then, place one frontier token on each system that has no planets.
Return the remaining frontier tokens to the game box. Place all
attachment tokens near the game board.
104.8 STEP 8—SHUFFLE COMMON DECKS: Shuffle the action card,
agenda, stage I objective, stage II objective, and secret objective
decks separately and place them in the common play area.
Shuffle the relic deck and each exploration deck separately and
place them in the common play area.
104.9 STEP 9—CREATE SUPPLY: Gather and create separate piles in
the common play area for trade good tokens, fighter tokens, and
infantry tokens.
Place the planet cards and legendary planet ability cards near the
game board.
104.10 STEP 10—GATHER STRATEGY CARDS: Place each of the eight
strategy cards faceup in the common play area within reach of
the speaker.
104.11 STEP 11—GATHER STARTING COMPONENTS: Each player gains
the starting technologies and starting units listed on the back of their
faction sheet. Each player places the technology cards faceup near
their faction sheet and the starting units in their home system.
Each player places three command tokens in their tactic pool, three
command tokens in their fleet pool, and two command tokens in
their strategy pool.
104.12 STEP 12—PREPARE OBJECTIVES: Prepare objectives as follows:
i.
Each player draws two secret objectives and chooses one to
keep. Shuffle the unchosen secret objectives back into the
secret objective deck without revealing them.
ii.
Place the victory point track near the game board. As a
group, players decide whether to play with the 10- or
14-space side of the victory point track faceup. Each player
places one of their control tokens on the “0” space of the
track.
iii.
The speaker deals five facedown stage I objectives and
places them in a row above the victory point track. Then, the
speaker deals five facedown stage II objectives and places
them in a row below the victory point track.
iv.
The speaker reveals the first two stage I objectives.
